President Obama’s Hour of Code
 Article Friday, March 4 2016
From Hadi Partovi’s answer via Quora: This is a great story. Code.org launched in February, 2013 with a video (What Most Schools Don’t Teach).  At that time, we had little more

Software Journalism at GeekWire with Todd Bishop
 Podcast 
“Our justice system in general – even if you look at things like our regulatory system, our patent system – I think it has a very hard time keeping up with the current pace of
software journalism
Open Source and Rails with Aaron Patterson
 Podcast Sunday, March 6 2016
“I have a really fun time being in open source, and I want other people in the community to feel the same way as well. Programming isn’t just my job – its also my
Aaron Patterson
Machine Learning in Healthcare with David Kale
 Podcast Monday, March 7 2016
“Building a model to predict disease and deploying that in the wild – the bar for success is much higher there than, say, deciding what ad to show you.” Diagnosing illness today
healthcare machine learning
Data Engineering at Airbnb with Maxime Beauchemin
 Podcast Tuesday, March 8 2016
“One big transformation we’re seeing right now is the slow agonizing death of MapReduce.” When a company gets big enough, there is so much data to be processed that an entire data

Hadoop: Past, Present and Future with Mike Cafarella
 Podcast Wednesday, March 9 2016
“HDFS is going to be a cockroach – I don’t think its ever going away.” Hadoop was created in 2003. In the early years, Hadoop provided large scale data processing with MapReduce,
hadoop
Competition in the Open Source Ecosystem
 Article Thursday, March 10 2016
From Eric Sammer’s answer via Quora: At Cloudera (company) we regularly work on open source code right along side our competitors. I tend to joke that the engineers at our competitors

Cassandra with Tim Berglund
 Podcast 
“There isn’t any central node in Cassandra. Every node is a peer, there is no master – there is no single point of failure.” Apache Cassandra can serve as both the real-time
cassandra
FiloDB with Evan Chan
 Podcast Friday, March 11 2016
“The world is becoming more and more interactive, and people want answers right away, so you’re seeing the rise of stream processing and real-time.” Big data is
filodb
Data Visualization and Mapping with Aurelia Moser
 Podcast Sunday, March 13 2016
“I’m always worried that if you teach too much magic, people don’t learn the basics – they don’t know why something is working, they just know the documentation said it should

State of Programming with Jeff Atwood
 Podcast Monday, March 14 2016
“The geeks won because somehow we tricked everyone into carrying around a computer with them!” Stack Overflow is used by developers to find out how to build software. Stack Overflow

The Software Engineering Job Market with Hiten Parmar
 Podcast Tuesday, March 15 2016
“Even Larry at Google has said that if he could hire 100,000 more people, he would – he just can’t find them.” In many ways the engineering job market is broken. Engineers cannot
engineering job market
Using Software to Discover Rare Diseases with Matt Might
 Podcast Wednesday, March 16 2016
“In many ways, nature is still the fastest computer we have when it comes to studying disease.” Software engineering is a deterministic field. We write lines of code, and feed data
rare diseases with matt might
Building vs. Buying Software with Ayan Barua
 Podcast Thursday, March 17 2016
“Even if you’re building, you’re building on top of existing open source architecture. You’re not really starting from scratch – all of us are standing on the shoulders of
siftery ayan barua
Helping Veterans Learn to Code with David Molina
 Podcast Sunday, March 20 2016
“We’re already problem solvers, and we’re just trying to be problem solvers on the web.” Military veterans have the right set of skills to become programmers. Technical
operation code
Gitter Engineering with Mike Bartlett and Andrew Newdigate
 Podcast Monday, March 21 2016
“The most important thing behind it is to think about developers in the way that product people think about consumers, and that the first time experience of your API needs to be
gitter
Building Software for Millenials with Anthony Sessa
 Podcast Tuesday, March 22 2016
“Millenials deeply care about software, in the sense where if something doesn’t work as it should, it’s forgotten immediately – if you build an app and there are bugs, you’re

CodeNewbie with Saron Yitbarek
 Podcast Wednesday, March 23 2016
“There are advantages in the newness of coding.” CodeNewbie is a community of programmers and people learning to code. There are so many people learning about software today,

Developer Analytics with Calvin French-Owen
 Podcast Thursday, March 24 2016
“Its sort of like the old joke in computer science – what do you do when you have a problem? Well, add a layer of abstraction.” Today’s guest is Calvin French-Owen, the CTO of

DevOps at TopTal with Demir Selmanovic
 Podcast Friday, March 25 2016
“Whenever you create more communication lines by separating concerns – and you definitely do that between developers – you’re adding more complexity.” DevOps has been the

Robots in the Warehouse with Akash Gupta
 Podcast Saturday, March 26 2016
“Our major teams are lead by two people which include one person who’s very strong in their own field, and then there’s a person who has a very good understanding of the

Microservices, Distributed Teams, and Conferences with Juan Pablo Buriticá
 Podcast Sunday, March 27 2016
“With any system, whether it’s an organization or a biological system, or an information system, communication is always going to be a challenge. And how pieces of the system

OpenStack and the Future of Cloud Computing with John Purrier
 Podcast Monday, March 28 2016
“Why do we need any open source versions of proprietary implementations? I would argue that first of all, it’s just good for industry and the ecosystem.” Cloud service providers

Alluxio and Memory-centric Distributed Storage with Haoyuan Li
 Podcast Tuesday, March 29 2016
“Its not really about removing disk from the picture per se – it’s more like saying, ‘how do we leverage more and more resources from DRAM?’ ” Memory is king. The cost of
alluxio
Bootstrapping a SaaS for Developers with Itai Lahan
 Podcast Wednesday, March 30 2016
“It’s an amazing era for software developers – we have all this amazing infrastructure behind the scenes that we can build upon.” Ten years ago, building a highly scalable image
cloudinary
Application Crash Monitoring with James Smith
 Podcast Thursday, March 31 2016
“The dirty secret of software is that you cannot fix every single bug.” Applications can and will crash — it is increasingly important for developers to have visibility into

Poker and Software Engineering
 Podcast Saturday, April 2 2016
The last editorial we did was 10 Philosophies for Engineers. Listeners enjoyed that episode, so we decided to do another. 10 Philosophies was a collection of beliefs I have about the

Stream Processing at Uber with Danny Yuan
 Podcast Sunday, April 3 2016
“Be aggressive in vision, but conservative in operation.” Uber is a transportation company with a high volume of temporal spacial data, constantly being collected from the devices of
uber-eng
Code Analysis with Dan Silivestru and Gord Tanner
 Podcast Monday, April 4 2016
“JavaScript as a language is evolving year over year with new implementations and new language features, and we need to make sure we stay on top of those.” Code analysis tools can

Automating Infrastructure at HashiCorp with Mitchell Hashimoto
 Podcast Tuesday, April 5 2016
“SaaS, whether we want it or not, in enterprise technology or in our data centers, is coming.” Application delivery has become more complex as software architectures have moved into

Git Workflows with Tim Pettersen
 Podcast Wednesday, April 6 2016
“Git is a fairly flexible tool – one of the ways that people often describe it is that it gives you enough rope to hang yourself.” Git is the most popular version control system.

Scaling Email with J.R. Jasperson
 Podcast Thursday, April 7 2016
“As the scale continues to increase, certain effects of architecture become less and less efficient.” When you spend money online, you expect a receipt to come in your email. When

The Past, Present, and Future of Open Source
 Podcast Friday, April 8 2016
Nadia Eghbal joins us as the host of today’s show to discuss the past, present, and future of open-source software. This monologue was adapted from Nadia’s article, We’re

JavaScript and Frontend Development with Marc Grabanski
 Podcast Sunday, April 10 2016
“Seeing stuff happen is exciting in the early days. But when you try to be at the senior level, at the architect level, you have to understand that there is a cost to adopting a higher

Logging and NoOps with Christian Beedgen
 Podcast Monday, April 11 2016
“You write the code, but you don’t run it? That’s just preposterous.” Software applications are constantly generating logs. These logs are necessary to understand how an

Creating the Wiki with Ward Cunningham
 Podcast Tuesday, April 12 2016
“I believe that there’s something deeply personal, natural, and human going on as we construct these abstract devices called computers.” Wiki technology was invented decades ago to

CockroachDB with Ben Darnell
 Podcast Wednesday, April 13 2016
“Eventual consistency is really kind of a marketing term from some of these NoSQL systems – it’s not really consistent in any strong sense of the term.” Google has published

Managing a CDN with Carl Gustas
 Podcast Thursday, April 14 2016
“We’re not always in control of other people’s networks.” CDN stands for content delivery network. A content delivery network is a system of distributed servers that delivers

Search as a Service with Julien Lemoine
 Podcast Sunday, April 17 2016
“You need to build more things yourself to be highly available, but one of the very good consequences of being bare metal is that the prices are very low compared to what you could get

Elixir and Erlang with Jose Valim
 Podcast Monday, April 18 2016
“Functional programming is about making the complex parts of your system explicit.” Elixir is a programming language built on top of the Erlang virtual machine. Elixir allows

Google’s Container Management with Brendan Burns
 Podcast Tuesday, April 19 2016
Kubernetes is an open source system for automating deployment, operations, and scaling of containerized applications. Google developed Kubernetes after fifteen years of running
Debugging Your Crashes with Ben Curtis
 Podcast Wednesday, April 20 2016
Applications crash, and engineers need to be able to quickly find the root cause of a crash. Apps have become distributed, and debugging workflows have changed. Developers need better
Reverse Engineering Facebook with Alex Hogue
 Podcast Thursday, April 21 2016
“Graphing when your Facebook Friends are awake” was trending at the top of Hacker News when Alex Hogue first posted it. Alex wrote a blog post about this piece of software he
Kubernetes, Mesos, and Kismatic with Joseph Jacks
 Podcast Sunday, April 24 2016
Kubernetes has been a focus of several previous shows on Software Engineering Daily. The architecture and management of our distributed systems have changed, and widespread adoption of
Azure Event Hubs and Kafka with Dan Rosanova
 Podcast Monday, April 25 2016
Apache Kafka has become the most popular open-source solution for persistent replicated messaging in the Hadoop ecosystem. But some software engineers who are working with “big data”
Docker for Beginners with Prakhar Srivastav
 Podcast Tuesday, April 26 2016
Docker is an open platform for distributed applications. Docker allows for standardized container runtimes and will be an important piece of infrastructure for many years to come. But if
Scale Your Code with Christophe Limpalair
 Podcast Wednesday, April 27 2016
As software engineering gets more popular, the resources that we use to read and understand software are growing and improving. Scale Your Code is an organization that seeks to improve
Distributed Systems and Exception Monitoring with Brian Rue
 Podcast Thursday, April 28 2016
Exception monitoring services and log management services are two sides of a gradient. Exception monitoring services capture and aggregate the problems that occur on your application.
Kubernetes, Docker, and the Distributed Operating System with Kelsey Hightower
 Podcast Sunday, May 1 2016
Kubernetes is an open-source distributed operating system that allows normal engineers to manage their resources at the scale that Google does. With Docker providing the APIs to make
Falcor at Netflix with Brian Holt
 Podcast Monday, May 2 2016
At Netflix, building a user interface requires data about movies, actors, users, accounts, and much more. If each piece of data is coming from a different source, a programmer has to
Open Source Pancreas with Dana Lewis
 Podcast Tuesday, May 3 2016
Patients with Type-1 diabetes need to frequently pump insulin into their bodies. In order to know when to pump insulin, these patients have a continuous glucose monitor alarm which
Virtual Reality Best Practices with Andreia Gaita
 Podcast Thursday, May 5 2016
Virtual reality is a new platform for software engineers to work with. Best practices for VR development have not become widespread throughout the developer community. If you are
The Changelog with Adam Stacoviak and Jerod Santo
 Podcast 
The Changelog is one of the most popular Software Engineering Podcasts in existence. Open source software moves fast, and The Changelog helps developers keep up with that rapid pace by
Mobile Apps and Monetization with Mike Wakerly
 Podcast Sunday, May 8 2016
Applications on your phone can talk to each other, but the way that apps interact is still far from the way that web pages interact. Mike Wakerly is the CTO of Button, a service that
React Data Flow with Jared Forsyth
 Podcast Monday, May 9 2016
React started as just a view layer–it was the V in MVC. React has moved down the stack, with Flux, Redux, GraphQL, and Relay providing opinions for how React applications should
Spark and Cassandra with Tim Berglund
 Podcast Tuesday, May 10 2016
Apache Spark is a framework for fast, distributed, in-memory analysis. Apache Cassandra is a distributed database management system that provides high availability and fast throughput.
Azure Stream Analytics with Santosh Balasubramanian
 Podcast Wednesday, May 11 2016
Microsoft has built a suite of technologies on top of its Azure infrastructure as a service. Today, we discuss Azure Stream Analytics, a real-time event processing engine developed at
Crate.io and Distributed SQL with Jodok Batlogg
 Podcast Thursday, May 12 2016
Distributed databases are difficult to operate, and Crate.io wants to change that. Crate is a fast, scalable, easy-to-use SQL database that is built to run in containerized environments.
Distributed Systems Tradeoffs with Camille Fournier
 Podcast Sunday, May 15 2016
Distributed systems products are often marketed with terms like “real-time data” and “hassle-free scaling”, but what do those terms actually mean? Is data in a distributed system
Decentralization: Ethereum, Bitcoin, and IPFS with Karl Floersh
 Podcast Monday, May 16 2016
Almost a year ago, Software Engineering Daily aired a week of shows about decentralized technologies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and IPFS. Bitcoin has established itself as a stable network,
Dropbox’s Magic Pocket with James Cowling
 Podcast Tuesday, May 17 2016
Dropbox has been storing files on Amazon Web Services for 8 years, and Dropbox’s core business is storing files. For the past three years, Dropbox has been working on a project to
Netflix’s Data Pipeline with Steven Wu
 Podcast Wednesday, May 18 2016
At Netflix, 500 billion events and 1.3 petabytes of data are ingested by the system per day.  This includes video viewing activities, error logs, and performance events. On today’s
Google’s Microservices: Kubernetes and gRPC with Sandeep Dinesh
 Podcast Thursday, May 19 2016
Google has built a microservices architecture on top of the internal container management system called Borg. These services communicate over an internal protocol known as Stubby. Borg
Erlang Systems Design with Francesco Cesarini
 Podcast Sunday, May 22 2016
Erlang is a programming language with primitives that help software engineers build distributed systems. When a process is malfunctioning in Erlang, the philosophy of the language is to
Kafka, Storm, and Cassandra: Keen IO’s Analytics Architecture with Dan Kador
 Podcast Monday, May 23 2016
The process of building a software project requires us to make so many architectural decisions. Which programming languages should be used? Which cloud service provider? Which database?
Rust with Steve Klabnik
 Podcast Tuesday, May 24 2016
Rust is a systems programming language being developed at Mozilla. Rust has features of a high-level functional language like Scala and a low-level, performance-driven language like C++.
Minecraft Programming with Gabriel Simmer
 Podcast Wednesday, May 25 2016
Minecraft is a sandbox video game in which players build constructions out of 3-D cubes in a procedurally generated world. Minecraft is the best-selling PC game of all time. But
Solar Investment and Architectural Strategy at Wunder Capital
 Podcast Thursday, May 26 2016
Solar energy is a growing market. Improvements in hardware have led to some people predicting that solar energy will be powering the world within the next few decades. Undoubtedly, a
Infrastructure as Code with SaltStack’s David Boucha
 Podcast Sunday, May 29 2016
Infrastructure-as-code is a trend that has been popularized over the past decade, as cloud computing and distributed systems have become a part of every technology company. Tools like
Boot Camps, Mesosphere, and Open-Source with Kenny Tran
 Podcast Monday, May 30 2016
Coding boot camps are a subject of controversy. Critics of boot camps defend the conventional university system, and argue that boot camp graduates do not have enough experience to write
Kubernetes and OpenShift with Clayton Coleman
 Podcast Tuesday, May 31 2016
Kubernetes is the container management platform that came out of Google’s experiences managing data centers. Kubernetes abstracts away many of the frustrations of distributed systems

Scaling PostgreSQL with Citus Data’s Ozgun Erdogan
 Podcast Wednesday, June 1 2016
Ten years ago, databases were much simpler. Most companies would only have one or two types of databases in production. Today, the age of one-size-fits-all is over. Companies have
Software Editorialism with Practical Dev’s Ben Halpern
 Podcast Thursday, June 2 2016
Most programmers spend lots of their time reading content about software. Since our field changes so rapidly, engineers consume news and editorials voraciously, trying to keep up with
Google’s Polymer Project with Rob Dodson
 Podcast Sunday, June 5 2016
Smart phone apps have better performance than web apps. When we have an application that we use on a regular basis, we download that application to a smart phone rather than using the
Tech Girls Movement with Jenine Beekhuyzen
 Podcast Monday, June 6 2016
The software industry has a severe lack of women. There are numerous root causes of this diversity problem. Families do not encourage women to enter math and science. The media portrays
Phone Spam with Truecaller CTO Umut Alp
 Podcast Tuesday, June 7 2016
The war against spam has been going on for decades. Email spam blockers and ad blockers help protect us from unwanted messages in our communication and browsing experience. These spam
Management and Hiring with Jon Emerson
 Podcast Wednesday, June 8 2016
Engineering managers start out as engineers. Eventually, there is a fork in their career road where an engineer can choose to move up into management or continue on as an engineer in a
Serverless Framework with Austen Collins
 Podcast Thursday, June 9 2016
Virtual machines were the unit of cloud computation for many years. Amazon Web Services pioneered the democratized model of allowing anyone to deploy a service to the cloud, running on a
Music
 Podcast Saturday, June 11 2016
Most episodes of Software Engineering Daily are interviews with an expert about a technical software concept. Over the past year I have done a few experiments that are more editorial
JavaScript Concurrency with Kyle Simpson
 Podcast Sunday, June 12 2016
JavaScript programming usually is done through the use of frameworks, such as ReactJS, AngularJS, and EmberJS. These frameworks abstract away some of the messy details of JavaScript, and
Female Pursuit of Computer Science with Jennifer Wang
 Podcast Monday, June 13 2016
Google researcher Jennifer Wang co-wrote a paper called “Gender Differences in Factors Influencing Pursuit of Computer Science and Related Fields”. The paper focuses on a survey of
Google’s Site Reliability Engineering with Todd Underwood
 Podcast Tuesday, June 14 2016
Google’s site reliability engineers are responsible for maintaining the highly available services that power the Google software that we all use on a regular basis. O’Reilly recently
Secret Management and Vault with Hashicorp’s Seth Vargo
 Podcast Wednesday, June 15 2016
Every software application has secrets. User passwords and database credentials must be managed carefully, because poor access controls can lead to disaster scenarios. Vault is a tool
Internet of Things with Azure’s Steve Busby
 Podcast Thursday, June 16 2016
The Internet of Things is becoming a reality. Factories are being outfitted with sensors, temperature monitors, and other data gathering devices. In agriculture, farms are becoming more
Algorithm Marketplace with Diego Oppenheimer of Algorithmia
 Podcast Sunday, June 19 2016
Algorithmia is marketplace for algorithms. A software engineer who writes an algorithm for image processing or spam detection or TF-IDF can turn that algorithm into a RESTful API to be
Serverless Code with Ryan Scott Brown
 Podcast Monday, June 20 2016
The unit of computation has evolved from on premise servers to virtual machines in the cloud to containers running in those virtual machines. Serverless computation is another stage in
Manufacturing and Microservices with Cimpress’ Jim Sokoloff and Maarten Wensveen
 Podcast Tuesday, June 21 2016
Mass customization is the process of making customized, personalized products that are accessible to individuals and small businesses. The process involves manufacturing, assembly lines,
Scaling Twitter with Buoyant.io’s William Morgan
 Podcast Wednesday, June 22 2016
Six years ago, Twitter was experiencing outages due to high traffic. Back in 2010 Twitter was built as a monolithic Ruby on Rails application. Twitter migrated to a microservices
Death and Distributed Systems with Pieter Hintjens
 Podcast Thursday, June 23 2016
Pieter Hintjens grew up writing software by himself. The act of writing code brought him great pleasure, but the isolated creative process disconnected him from the rest of the world. As
Cloud.gov with Aidan Feldman
 Podcast Sunday, June 26 2016
18F is an organization that is building the 21st century digital government. In order to build online government services that have the high quality of modern cloud applications, 18F
Apache Guacamole and Remote Desktop with Mike Jumper
 Podcast Monday, June 27 2016
In order to use a remote desktop experience, software engineers have a limited number of options, and most of them are proprietary, like VMWare or Oracle. Remote desktop is a
Cassandra Compliant ScyllaDB with Dor Laor
 Podcast Tuesday, June 28 2016
Apache Cassandra is a distributed database that can handle large amounts of data with no single point of failure. Since 2008, Cassandra has been widely adopted and the software and the
P2P Money Transfer with TransferWise’s Harsh Sinha
 Podcast Thursday, June 30 2016
Transferring money from one country to another is expensive, and the banks that facilitate money transfer have tricked us into believing that it should be expensive. On today’s show,
Container Management with Alexis Richardson
 Podcast Thursday, June 30 2016
Twenty years ago, Bill Joy talked about the eight fallacies of distributed computing–these are things such as “the network is reliable”, and “latency is zero”, and
KubeCloud: Tangible Cloud Computing with Kasper Nissen and Martin Jensen
 Podcast Sunday, July 3 2016
At most universities, there is not a course titled “cloud computing”. Most students leave college without an understanding of distributed systems, cloud service providers, and the
Cloud Providers with Don Pezet
 Podcast Monday, July 4 2016
In 1999, it took $50,000 to buy a server. Once you bought that server, you had to know how to operate and maintain it. Today, cloud service providers have changed how we build software.
Security and Machine Learning in the Call Center with Pindrop Security’s Chris Halaschek
 Podcast Tuesday, July 5 2016
Call centers are a vulnerable point of attack for large enterprises. Fraud accounts for more than $20 billion in lost money every year, and a significant portion of that fraud is due to
Schedulers with Adrian Cockcroft
 Podcast Wednesday, July 6 2016
Scheduling is the method by which work is assigned to resources to complete that work. At the operating system level, this can mean scheduling of threads and processes. At the data
Scalable Architecture with Lee Atchison
 Podcast Friday, July 8 2016
Lee Atchison spent seven years at Amazon working in retail, software distribution, and Amazon Web Services. He then moved to New Relic, where he has spent four years scaling the
Platforms with Bridget Kromhout
 Podcast Sunday, July 10 2016
At software conferences, I like to walk around the vendor booths and talk to the representatives from different companies. By talking to the vendors about their marketing pitches, I get
Salary Negotiation with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Monday, July 11 2016
Negotiation is an important skill for software engineers. The salary you negotiate at the beginning of your job could be a difference of tens of thousands of dollars over the course of

Cassandra Data Modeling with Jon Haddad
 Podcast Tuesday, July 12 2016
Data modeling is the process of creating relationships and rules about objects, so that we can decide how to store them in a database. Data modeling defines how we store and query our
IoT Analytics with Jean-Christophe Cimono
 Podcast Wednesday, July 13 2016
On smart thermostats, sensor-driven assembly lines, and electronically monitored farms, the internet of things is producing huge volumes of data.   To take advantage of that data,

Economics of Software with Russ Roberts
 Podcast Thursday, July 14 2016
EconTalk is a weekly economics podcast that has been going for a decade. On EconTalk, Russ Roberts brings on writers, intellectuals, and entrepreneurs for engaging conversations about

Apache Arrow with Uwe Korn
 Podcast Sunday, July 17 2016
In a typical data analytics system, there are a variety of technologies interacting. HDFS for storing files, Spark for distributed machine learning, pandas for data analysis in

Peter Bailis on the Data Community’s Identity Crisis
 Podcast Monday, July 18 2016
Breakthroughs in modern data research tend to come from companies like Google, Facebook, and Amazon, with projects like MapReduce, Cassandra, and Dynamo.   Twenty years ago, this

Container Platforms with Darren Shepherd
 Podcast Tuesday, July 19 2016
Container management systems like Kubernetes and Docker Swarm give us a higher level management tool for architectures built out of distributed containers.   Container platforms

Kubernetes Origins with Craig Mcluckie
 Podcast Wednesday, July 20 2016
The container management system Kubernetes was open sourced by Google with the intention of creating a cloud service based on the project. Today, the Kubernetes ecosystem is looking

Android on iPhone with Nick Lee
 Podcast Thursday, July 21 2016
Finally–the Android operating system has been put on an iPhone, and today’s guest is Nick Lee, who accomplished that feat. Nick works at Tendigi, a design and engineering firm.
Open Source Culture with Rachel Roumeliotis
 Podcast Monday, July 25 2016
Open source software has become the rule for how software is written rather than the exception. OSCON is O’Reilly’s open source conference, where companies and individuals talk about

Pixar in a Box with Kitt Hirasaki
 Podcast 
Pixar has made some of the most successful movies of all time: Toy Story, WALL-E, Monsters Inc, and many others.   These movies are made with cutting-edge computer animation

Scaling github with Sam Lambert
 Podcast Tuesday, July 26 2016
github has grown to have 10 million users and 30 million repositories. Getting to this scale has required innovation in many places–github has significantly altered the code for

Fintech Hiring with Ed Donner
 Podcast Wednesday, July 27 2016
Financial technology has changed significantly in the last decade, and companies both new and old are adapting to that change. Newer companies like TransferWise and Stripe are often

The Art of Monitoring with James Turnbull
 Podcast Thursday, July 28 2016
Monitoring translates machine data into actionable business metrics, and is a key component of a modern software company. James Turnbull’s new book “The Art of Monitoring”

Prometheus with Julius Volz
 Podcast Monday, August 1 2016
Prometheus is an open-source monitoring tool built at SoundCloud. It can be used to produce detailed time-series data about a distributed architecture. Prometheus is based on the

Mobycraft with Aditya Gupta
 Podcast Tuesday, August 2 2016
MobyCraft is a client-side Minecraft mod to manage and visualize Docker containers. MobyCraft was created by Aditya Gupta. I met him at DockerCon, where he gave a presentation about his

Odd Networks with Kris Walker
 Podcast Wednesday, August 3 2016
Odd Networks is building a platform for anyone to launch their own over-the-top streaming video service. With Odd Networks, you can deploy your own video channel using a Roku, Amazon

Clojure with Alex Miller
 Podcast Thursday, August 4 2016
Clojure is a dynamically typed functional language that runs on the JVM. Today’s guest Alex Miller gives us an overview of Clojure’s core functionality. Alex is a developer of

Industries of the Future with Alec Ross
 Podcast Friday, August 5 2016
Alec Ross worked in the White House as a Senior Policy Advisor to Hillary Clinton. His book Industries of the Future explores the biggest technological opportunities and threats to our

You Are Not A Commodity
 Podcast Sunday, August 7 2016
Most episodes of Software Engineering Daily are interviews with an expert about a technical software concept. Occasionally I write editorials, and also record them as a podcast. The

GraphQL as a Service with Scaphold.io
 Podcast Monday, August 8 2016
GraphQL was open sourced out of Facebook, and gave developers a way to unify their different data sources into a single endpoint. Although the promise of GraphQL is appealing, the

Podcast Infrastructure with Mikael Emtinger
 Podcast Tuesday, August 9 2016
The technology underlying podcasts is simple–a podcaster publishes mp3 files to an RSS feed, and the listener subscribes to that feed, receiving mp3s whenever the feed is updated.

Prometheus Monitoring with Brian Brazil
 Podcast Wednesday, August 10 2016
Prometheus is a tool for monitoring our distributed applications. It allows us to focus on the services we are deploying rather than the individual machines that make up instances of

unikernels and unik with Scott Weiss
 Podcast Thursday, August 11 2016
The Linux kernel of many popular operating system distributions contains 200-500 million lines of code. The average user never touches many of the libraries that are contained in these

Data Breaches with Troy Hunt
 Podcast Friday, August 12 2016
When you hear about massive data breaches like the recent ones from LinkedIn, MySpace, or Ashley Madison, how can you find out whether your own data was compromised?   Troy Hunt

Flexport Engineering with Amos Elliston
 Podcast Monday, August 15 2016
Flexport is a technology company that makes logistics, supply chain management, and freight forwarding software. Shipping freight across the world requires container ships, airplanes,

Machine Learning for Sales with Per Harald Borgen
 Podcast Tuesday, August 16 2016
Machine learning has become simplified. Similar to how Ruby on Rails made web development approachable, scikit-learn takes away much of the frustrating aspects of machine learning, and

Data Validation with Dan Morris
 Podcast Wednesday, August 17 2016
Data Validation is the process of ensuring that data is accurate. In many software domains, an application is pulling in large quantities of data from external sources. That data will

TensorFlow in Practice with Rajat Monga
 Podcast Thursday, August 18 2016
TensorFlow is Google’s open source machine learning library. Rajat Monga is the engineering director for TensorFlow. In this episode, we cover how to use TensorFlow, including an

Apache Beam with Frances Perry
 Podcast Friday, August 19 2016
Unbounded data streams create difficult challenges for our application architectures. The data never stops coming, and we are forced to assume that we will never know if or when we have

Akka Reactive Streams with Konrad Malawski
 Podcast Monday, August 22 2016
Akka is a toolkit for building concurrent, distributed, message-driven applications on the JVM. Akka provides an implementation of the actor model of concurrency, which simplifies

Serverless Architecture with Mike Roberts
 Podcast Tuesday, August 23 2016
“Serverless” usually refers to an architectural pattern where the server side logic is run in stateless compute containers that are event-triggered and ephemeral. Mike Roberts has

Distributed Tracing with Reshmi Krishna
 Podcast Wednesday, August 24 2016
In a microservices architecture, a user request will often make its way through several different services before it returns a result to the end user. If a user experiences a failed

Kubernetes Migration with Sheriff Mohamed
 Podcast Thursday, August 25 2016
Kubernetes is a cluster management tool open sourced by Google. On Software Engineering Daily, we’ve done numerous shows on how Kubernetes works in theory. Today’s episode is a case

Uber’s Ringpop with Jeff Wolski
 Podcast Friday, August 26 2016
Uber has a software architecture with unique requirements. Uber does not have the firehose of user engagement data that Twitter or Facebook has, but each transaction on Uber is both high

Artificial Intelligence with Oren Etzioni
 Podcast Monday, August 29 2016
Research in artificial intelligence takes place mostly at universities and large corporations, but both of these types of institutions have constraints that cause the research to proceed

CoreOS with Brandon Philips
 Podcast Tuesday, August 30 2016
Google’s infrastructure has been the source inspiration for research papers, software projects, and entire companies. Google pioneered the idea that we care less about the individual

Haskell in Production with Carl Baatz
 Podcast Wednesday, August 31 2016
The Haskell programming language is often thought of as an academic tool, useful for teaching students about monads and functors, but not much else. But there are advantages to using

Automated Content with Robbie Allen
 Podcast Thursday, September 1 2016
You have probably read a news article that was written by a machine. When earnings reports come out, or a series of sports events like the Olympics occurs, there are so many small

Music Deep Learning with Feynman Liang
 Podcast Friday, September 2 2016
Machine learning can be used to generate music. In the case of Feynman Liang’s research project BachBot, the machine learning model is seeded with the music of famous composer Bach.

Drones with Buddy Michini
 Podcast Monday, September 5 2016
Drones will become a central part of our lives. Drones are delivering packages, surveying cell phone towers, providing wi-fi, or fertilizing crops. Drones are assisting humans in

Facebook Relationship Algorithms with Jon Kleinberg
 Podcast Tuesday, September 6 2016
Facebook users provide lots of information about the structure of their relationship graph. Facebook uses that information to provide content and services that are expected to be

The Recurse Center with Nick Bergson-Shilcock
 Podcast Wednesday, September 7 2016
Learning to program is about self-driven exploration. Universities help guide you, coding boot camps provide a rigorous environment to work in, and online coding courses provide content

Relational Databases with Craig Kerstiens
 Podcast Thursday, September 8 2016
Relational databases are used by most applications. MySQL, Postgres, Microsoft SQL Server, and other products implement the core features of a relational database in different ways. A

Uber’s Postgres Problems with Evan Klitzke
 Podcast Friday, September 9 2016
When a company switches the relational database it uses, you wouldn’t expect the news of the switch to go viral. Most engineers are not interested in the subtle differences between

Slack’s Architecture with Keith Adams
 Podcast Monday, September 12 2016
Slack is a chat application that is rapidly growing in popularity. The focus of Slack is to create a polished, responsive tool for productivity that cuts down on the emailing, context

Microsoft Antitrust with Harry First
 Podcast Tuesday, September 13 2016
Microsoft was the dominant technology company in the 1990’s, until it came under fire for anticompetitive practices. Internet Explorer was tightly coupled to the Windows operating

Unikernels with Idit Levine
 Podcast Wednesday, September 14 2016
Unikernels allow us to specify the minimum features of an operating system we need to deploy our applications. We’ve had many shows about containers, which allow you to deploy your

Commodity Discussion with Preethi Kasireddy
 Podcast Thursday, September 15 2016
A previous episode of Software Engineering Daily called “You Are Not A Commodity” received a lot of feedback, both negative and positive. The episode was a monologue I wrote about

Cloud Dataflow with Eric Anderson
 Podcast Friday, September 16 2016
Batch and stream processing systems have been evolving for the past decade. From MapReduce to Apache Storm to Dataflow, the best practices for large volume data processing have become

Electronic Frontier Foundation with Nate Cardozo
 Podcast Monday, September 19 2016
When the US government hacks its own citizens, The Electronic Frontier Foundation is often the best source of reporting to find out what laws the government has broken. When a change to

Cloud Clients with Jon Skeet
 Podcast Tuesday, September 20 2016
Google builds cloud services for developers, such as PubSub, Cloud Storage, BigQuery, and Cloud DataStore. On Software Engineering Daily, we’ve done lots of shows about how these types

Devoxx4Kids with Arun Gupta
 Podcast Wednesday, September 21 2016
Devoxx4Kids is an organization that is inspiring children through robotics, programming, and engineering. Kids who attend a Devoxx4Kids workshop are exposed to entertaining and

Tech Leadership with Jeff Norris
 Podcast Thursday, September 22 2016
The role of “tech lead” is a combination of a software engineer, a project manager, and an architect. A tech lead might spend 30% of her time coding and 70% managing a project,

Slack Security with Ryan Huber
 Podcast Friday, September 23 2016
Security for the popular chat application Slack is a major focus for the company. A corporate Slack account is as valuable to a hacker as a corporate email account. In today’s episode,

Container Security with Phil Estes
 Podcast Monday, September 26 2016
Containers have become the unit of infrastructure that many technology stacks deploy to. With the shift to containers, the attack surface of an application has changed, and we need to

Scikit-learn with Andreas Mueller
 Podcast Tuesday, September 27 2016
Scikit-learn is a set of machine learning tools in Python that provides easy-to-use interfaces for building predictive models. In a previous episode with Per Harald Borgen about Machine

Zuckerberg Files with Michael Zimmer and Nick Proferes
 Podcast Wednesday, September 28 2016
Mark Zuckerberg may be the most powerful person in the world. At no other time in history has a single human had such fine-grained control over the most influential tool for media.

Remote Work with Scott Berkun
 Podcast Thursday, September 29 2016
After nine years at Microsoft, Scott Berkun left to become an author. One of his books on project management was read by Matt Mullenweg, the creator of the WordPress blogging tool that

Andela with Brice Nkengsa
 Podcast Friday, September 30 2016
Africa has a huge reservoir of untapped technical talent. Tech companies have a huge amount of work they need skilled employees for. Andela recruits the most talented technologists

Docker Fork with Alex Williams and Joab Jackson
 Podcast Monday, October 3 2016
Docker containers changed how engineers think about building software, and the company most responsible for the widespread adoption of containers is Docker itself. Since containerization

Platform as a Service with Sinclair Schuller
 Podcast Tuesday, October 4 2016
Platform as a service can mean different things to different people. The most prominent feature of a PaaS is the ability to abstract away issues that every developer within an

Developer Roles with Dave Curry and Fred George
 Podcast Wednesday, October 5 2016
Software teams are traditionally composed of roles such as project manager, developer, QA, and manager. What happens if you throw out all of those titles, hire mostly engineers, and ask

ScalaJS with Haoyi Li
 Podcast Thursday, October 6 2016
Scala is a functional programming language built on the JVM. For more than a decade, this didn’t mean anything to front end web developers. More recently, ScalaJS has brought Scala to

Kafka Streams with Jay Kreps
 Podcast Friday, October 7 2016
Kafka Streams is a library for building streaming applications that transform input Kafka topics into output Kafka topics. In a time when there are numerous streaming frameworks already

Continuous Delivery with David Rice
 Podcast Monday, October 10 2016
In order to move software updates from the development team to production, companies do a variety of things. Some teams might email files to each other or use FTP or even floppy disks.

Monitoring Architecture with Theo Schlossnagle
 Podcast Tuesday, October 11 2016
Building a monitoring system is a complex distributed systems problem. Events are produced from different points in an application and must be aggregated in order to form metrics. These

Netflix Scheduling with Sharma Podila
 Podcast Wednesday, October 12 2016
  At Netflix, developers write applications with a variety of requirements–from simple requests for a list of movies to more resource-intensive requests like a complex machine

DevOps Handbook with Gene Kim
 Podcast Thursday, October 13 2016
The intent of the DevOps movement is to get organizations moving faster and more effectively by breaking down siloes, and improving communication. Gene Kim’s book The Phoenix Project

Kafka Event Sourcing with Neha Narkhede
 Podcast Friday, October 14 2016
When a user of a social network updates her profile, that profile update needs to propagate to several databases that want to know about such an update–search indexes, user

PANCAKE STACK Data Engineering with Chris Fregly
 Podcast Monday, October 17 2016
Data engineering is the software engineering that enables data scientists to work effectively. In today’s episode, we explore the different sides of data engineering–the data

Simpsons Data Science with Todd Schneider
 Podcast Tuesday, October 18 2016
The Simpsons is a classic, beloved television show. The scripts of The Simpsons have been made publicly available, and include dialogue, location, and character information. Todd

Docker Cloudcasting with Brian Gracely
 Podcast Wednesday, October 19 2016
Cloud computing was something much different in 2011, when Brian Gracely and Aaron Delp started The Cloudcast, a podcast I listen to on a regular basis. The Cloudcast features technical

Google Cloudbuilding with Joe Beda
 Podcast Thursday, October 20 2016
Google Compute Engine is the public cloud built by Google. It provides infrastructure- and platform-as-a-service capabilities that rival Amazon Web Services. Today’s guest Joe Beda was

Topic Roundtable with Haseeb Qureshi and Practical Dev’s Ben Halpern
 Podcast Friday, October 21 2016
Bot fraud, the New York tech scene, RethinkDB and open source; these topics and more are discussed in today’s episode. Two of the most popular guests return to the show to explore a

Database Choices and Uber with Markus Winand
 Podcast Monday, October 24 2016
When Uber’s engineering team published a blog post about moving to MySQL from Postgres, Markus Winand started receiving lots of email. Markus writes about databases on his blog “Use

Reactive JavaScript with Ben Lesh
 Podcast Tuesday, October 25 2016
Netflix has a highly interactive user interface. As I move my mouse around the page, hovering over titles and inspecting movie descriptions, there is a lot going on under the hood. One

Managed Kafka with Tom Crayford
 Podcast 
Kafka is a distributed log for producers and consumers to publish messages to each other. We’ve done many shows about Kafka as a key building block for distributed systems, but we

Coin Center with Peter Van Valkenburgh
 Podcast Thursday, October 27 2016
Blockchain technologies like Bitcoin and Ethereum have not impacted the lives of most consumers today. The theoretical breakthroughs that blockchain enables will eventually

Ad Fraud with Ben Trenda
 Podcast Friday, October 28 2016
Advertising fraud takes billions of dollars out of the economy every year. We don’t know exactly how much money is being lost, because we don’t know what percentage of Internet users

Musicians’ GitHub with Alan Grow
 Podcast Monday, October 31 2016
Music collaboration software that works over the Internet is a software challenge that has not been fully tackled. On today’s Internet, users collaborate intensively on programming

Ad Industry with Bob Hoffman
 Podcast Tuesday, November 1 2016
Online advertising is heavily affected by a set of delusions and fraudulent practices that few people in the adtech industry have an interest in stopping. This is the curious, perverse

ChatOps with Jason Hand
 Podcast Wednesday, November 2 2016
Chat bots are your newest co-worker. Slack, HipChat, and other chat clients allow developers and other team members to communicate more dynamically than the limits of email. Companies

Ad Tracking with Larry Furr
 Podcast Thursday, November 3 2016
When you visit a web page, that web page can write data to a file on your computer, known as a cookie. Scripts on that page can also read from your cookie file to understand where you

Indie Hackers with Courtland Allen
 Podcast Friday, November 4 2016
Indie Hackers is a website that profiles independent developers who have made profitable software projects, usually without raising any money. These projects make anywhere from a few

Legacy Code with Andrea Goulet
 Podcast Monday, November 7 2016
Legacy code is code without automated tests. Most companies have lots of legacy code, and most developers don’t like working on legacy code. Why is that? What is it that makes legacy

Julia Language with Jeff Bezanson
 Podcast Tuesday, November 8 2016
Jeff Bezanson’s university thesis described the motivation for a new programming language. He discussed the shortcomings of “array based programming environments” and his desire to

Reflections of an Old Programmer with Ben Northrop
 Podcast Wednesday, November 9 2016
Ben Northrop was sitting at a tech conference, listening to a presentation about a new piece of technology, when he was struck by the sense that history was repeating itself. For the

Fraud Prevention with Pete Hunt
 Podcast Thursday, November 10 2016
When Facebook acquired Instagram, one of the first systems Instagram plugged into was Facebook’s internal spam and fraud prevention system. Pete Hunt was the first Facebook engineer to

Infrastructure Mistakes with Avi Freedman
 Podcast Friday, November 11 2016
The blueprint for a typical startup involves investing heavily in cloud services–either from Amazon, Google, or Microsoft. The high costs can quickly eat away at all of the money

Bot Day
 Podcast Saturday, November 12 2016
Bot Day was an O’Reilly conference featuring talks from some of the leading figures in the bot industry. Before I attended Bot Day, I knew there were lots of applications for chatbots,

AWS Open Guide with Joshua Levy
 Podcast Monday, November 14 2016
Amazon Web Services changed the economics of building an internet application. Instead of having to invest tens of thousands of dollars up front for hardware, developers can pay for

Winning With Data with Tomasz Tunguz
 Podcast Tuesday, November 15 2016
Large technology companies have no shortage of data. But raw data itself does not provide a competitive advantage. Many companies are bottlenecked by a shortage of data scientists who

Slack Bots with Amir Shevat
 Podcast Wednesday, November 16 2016
Slack is a chat client that has reached wide adoption. The rise of Slack has coincided with the rise of chatbots. A chatbot is a simple, conversational interface into a computer program

Botnet Facebook Likes with Derek Muller
 Podcast Thursday, November 17 2016
Botnets have a massive influence on the Internet. As we have seen recently with the Mirai Botnet, IOT bots can take down companies as big as Netflix. In our recent episodes about

Software Small Businesses with Patrick McKenzie
 Podcast Friday, November 18 2016
Many programmers listening to this podcast are working at a big company, and they would prefer to be running their own software business. Patrick McKenzie has been writing about this

Debugging Stories with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Saturday, November 19 2016
Everyone has debugging stories. We have all had the experience of wrestling with a seemingly impossible bug for days until we finally come to a solution. In today’s episode, Haseeb

Apache Geode with Swapnil Bawaskar
 Podcast Monday, November 21 2016
There is a hierarchy of ways to access and store data in a computer system. The cheapest, slowest way to store and retrieve data is disk. On the faster end, we have memory. As we

Microservices with Rafi Schloming
 Podcast Tuesday, November 22 2016
Microservices are a widely adopted pattern for breaking an application up into pieces that can be well-understood by the individual teams within the company. Microservices also allow

Rust Concurrency with Alex Crichton
 Podcast Wednesday, November 23 2016
Rust is a systems level language that is built to prevent crashes and eliminate data races. A language like C++ gives you high speed and lots of control, but it is easy to have

Biological Computation with Colin Gravill
 Podcast Monday, November 28 2016
Biology research at Microsoft is focused on three main areas: molecular programming, synthetic biology, and stem cell biology. At the intersection of biology and computing there are

DotNet Core with Lee Coward and Immo Landwerth
 Podcast Tuesday, November 29 2016
C# .NET is the framework that is most often used to write software for the Microsoft Windows operating system. For many years, the C# .NET framework was closed source, but Microsoft’s

Software Podcasting with Robert Blumen
 Podcast Wednesday, November 30 2016
Four years ago, I started volunteering for a popular podcast about software–Software Engineering Radio. For the next two years, I learned about the process of making a quality

Database as a Service with Eliot Horowitz
 Podcast Thursday, December 1 2016
Eight years ago, MongoDB was an internal project at 10gen, a company that was trying to build a platform-as-a-service out of open-source components. The team at 10gen realized that the

Robot Lawyer with Joshua Browder
 Podcast Friday, December 2 2016
You have probably received a parking ticket that you felt was unfair,   but instead of fighting it, you paid the expensive price to get rid of it quickly. Fighting a parking ticket

Adforprize
 Podcast Saturday, December 3 2016
There are multiple paths to constructing a piece of software from start to finish. An individual programmer can build an entire product from scratch in a couple days. A giant corporation

Algorithms to Live By with Brian Christian
 Podcast Monday, December 5 2016
When you are deciding who to marry, you are using an algorithm. The same is true when you are looking for a parking space, playing a game of poker, or deciding whether or not to organize

Bot Memorial with Eugenia Kuyda
 Podcast Tuesday, December 6 2016
When a human passes away, we create a tombstone as a memorial. Friends and family visit a grave to remember the times they had with that person while they were still alive. Memorial bots

Developer Tools with Josh Varty
 Podcast Wednesday, December 7 2016
When you are working on a program, a lot of things are going through your head. In some sense, you become part machine when you are programming. Learnable Programming is a concept that

How Software Engineering Daily Works
 Podcast Thursday, December 8 2016
Software Engineering Daily was started a year and a half ago, based on what I learned from my podcasting experience on Software Engineering Radio. Last week, I interviewed Robert Blumen,

Netflix Caching with Scott Mansfield
 Podcast Friday, December 9 2016
Caching is a fundamental concept of computer science. When data is accessed frequently, we put that data in a place where it can be accessed more quickly–we put the data in a

Cloud Foundry with Cornelia Davis
 Podcast Monday, December 12 2016
Cloud Foundry is an open-source platform as a service. Companies use Cloud Foundry as a control plane to deploy and manage applications. It provides abstractions for microservices and

Ad Fraud Everywhere with Shailin Dhar
 Podcast Tuesday, December 13 2016
Advertising fraud is easy, legal, and extremely profitable. A fraudster can set up a website, scrape content from the internet, and run programmatic advertisements against that website.

Mesos, Kubernetes, and Infrastructure of the Future with Dharmesh Kakadia
 Podcast Wednesday, December 14 2016
Mesos and Kubernetes are tools for distributed systems management. Kubernetes is built with an emphasis on running services, whereas Mesos is commonly used for a wider variety of

Bots with Jon Bruner
 Podcast Thursday, December 15 2016
Over the next few years, bots will pervade our lives more and more. These smart, conversational text interfaces provide a new way of engaging with the computer systems that we have been

Scale API with Lucy Guo and Alexandr Wang
 Podcast Friday, December 16 2016
Some tasks are simple, but cannot be performed by a computer. Audio transcription, image recognition, survey completion–these are simple procedures that almost any human could

Reactive Microservices with Jonas Boner
 Podcast Monday, December 19 2016
For many years, software companies have been breaking up their applications into individual services for the purpose of isolation and maintainability. In the early 2000s, we called this

Ad Fraud Research with Augustine Fou
 Podcast Tuesday, December 20 2016
A huge percentage of online advertisements are never seen by humans. They are viewed by bots–automated scripts that are opening web pages in a browser and pretending to be a human.

Data Engineering with Pete Soderling
 Podcast Wednesday, December 21 2016
In the last five years, companies started hiring data engineers. A data engineer creates the systems that manage and access the huge volumes of data that are accumulating on cheap cloud

Sampling with Daniel Trostli
 Podcast Thursday, December 22 2016
Every song you hear on the radio is written with a computer. Computer musicians mostly use synthesizers and samples to compose these songs. A sample is a snippet of recorded sound,

Antifraud Architecture with Josh Yudaken
 Podcast Friday, December 23 2016
Online marketplaces and social networks often have a trust and safety team. The trust and safety team helps protect the platform from scams, fraud, and malicious actors. To detect these

Performance Monitoring with Andi Grabner
 Podcast Tuesday, December 27 2016
Application performance monitoring helps an engineer understand what is going on with an application. An application on a single machine is often monitored by inserting bytecode

Robot Cloud Lab with Max Hodak
 Podcast Wednesday, December 28 2016
A biologist wants to study the genetic makeup of an organism. A pharmaceutical researcher wants to test the effects of an experimental drug. These types of experiments require a deep

Startup Engineering with Mike Wolfe
 Podcast Thursday, December 29 2016
In the 1990s, the barriers to starting a company were significant. Not only did you need an idea, you needed $200,000 for servers and Oracle licenses. With cloud computing, the up-front

Breaking Into Startups
 Podcast Monday, January 2 2017
Many people find themselves going down a career path that does not bring them satisfaction. A lawyer finds himself constantly working cases he doesn’t care about. A student in medical

Self-Contained Systems with Eberhard Wolff
 Podcast Tuesday, January 3 2017
Self-contained systems is an architectural approach that separates the functionality of a system into many independent systems. Each self-contained system is an autonomous web

Security Research with Samy Kamkar
 Podcast Wednesday, January 4 2017
Every digital system has vulnerabilities. Cars can be hacked, locked computers can be exploited, and credit cards can be spoofed. Security researchers make a career out of finding these

Evolutionary Architecture with Neal Ford
 Podcast Thursday, January 5 2017
When a useful new technology comes out, companies that are in a position to adopt that new technology can gain an edge over competitors. As our industry grows and moves faster, these

Meetup Architecture with Yvette Pasqua
 Podcast Friday, January 6 2017
Meetup is an online service that allows people to gather into groups and meet in person. Since 2002, the company has been growing and its technology stack has been changing. Today, they

Cyber Warfare with Jared Smith
 Podcast Monday, January 9 2017
Vulnerabilities exist in every computer system. As a system gets bigger, the number of vulnerabilities magnifies. The web is the biggest, most complex computer system we have–but

Email Infrastructure with Chris McFadden
 Podcast Tuesday, January 10 2017
A company like Pinterest has millions of transactional emails to send to people. The scalability challenges of sending high volumes of email mean that it makes more sense for most

Ethics of Software with Bill Sourour
 Podcast Wednesday, January 11 2017
Software engineers are often one of the last lines of defense against potentially dangerous and unethical practices. Every software company encounters situations where the line between

Architecture of Free Code Camp with Berkeley Martinez
 Podcast Thursday, January 12 2017
Free Code Camp is an online learning platform that takes people from knowing nothing about code to having enough knowledge to build software for a living. We have already done a show

Columnar Data: Apache Arrow and Parquet with Julien Le Dem and Jacques Nadeau
 Podcast Friday, January 13 2017
Column-oriented data storage allows us to access all of the entries in a database column quickly and efficiently. Columnar storage formats are mostly relevant today for performing large

Python Data Visualization with Jake VanderPlas
 Podcast Monday, January 16 2017
Data visualization tools are required to translate the findings of data scientists into charts, graphs, and pictures. Understanding how to utilize these tools and display data is

Medical Machine Learning with Razik Yousfi and Leo Grady
 Podcast Tuesday, January 17 2017
Medical imaging is used to understand what is going on inside the human body and prescribe treatment. With new image processing and machine learning techniques, the traditional medical

Product Management with Suzie Prince
 Podcast Wednesday, January 18 2017
Product managers are responsible for guiding the design and overall functionality of software. The relationship between product managers and engineers is complimentary: a PM is viewing

Inferno with Dominic Gannaway
 Podcast Thursday, January 19 2017
Over the past few years, React has become the most popular front end JavaScript framework. As React has matured, the open source community around React has identified areas for

Urbit with Curtis Yarvin and Galen Wolfe-Pauly
 Podcast Friday, January 20 2017
Urbit is a completely new way of looking at computing. Every user gets a personal server, which runs your apps, wrangles your connected devices, and defines your secure identity. Your

Hybrid Mobile Apps with Adam Bradley
 Podcast Monday, January 23 2017
Building a mobile app requires developers to build a separate version for Android and iOS. The approval process for app stores makes it difficult to deploy quickly and iterate in small

Reactive Microservices Development with Markus Eisele
 Podcast Tuesday, January 24 2017
The goals of microservices are the same as what we have pursued in software engineering for decades: isolation, decoupling, maintainability, scalability. The reason that we use the term

Translation with Vasco Pedro
 Podcast Wednesday, January 25 2017
Translation is a classic problem in computer science. How do you translate a sentence from one human language into another? This seems like a problem that computers are well-suited to

Kotlin with Hadi Hariri
 Podcast Thursday, January 26 2017
Whatever engineering problem you have right now, the solution is probably not to write a new programming language. But sometimes it does make sense. JetBrains makes IDEs–the

Robots for the Elderly with Itai Mendelsohn
 Podcast Friday, January 27 2017
Many elderly people live with unhealthy levels of isolation. Social isolation is a problem for anybody, but younger people can use technology to alleviate their isolation with tools like

Making Money Online for Software Engineers with Courtland Allen
 Podcast Monday, January 30 2017
Engineers today have a variety of career options. You could go work for a large corporation, you could raise money and start a startup, you could freelance and move from job to job with

Twilio Engineering with Pat Malatack
 Podcast Tuesday, January 31 2017
Back in 2008, the range of tools that engineers could use to connect computer systems together were getting quite good. Cloud computing was democratizing access to servers. But the

Developer On Fire with Dave Rael
 Podcast Wednesday, February 1 2017
Software developers succeed by combining technical ability, communication skills, and well-reasoned philosophies to craft information systems. Where this podcast focuses on the

Reality with Donald Hoffman
 Podcast Thursday, February 2 2017
What is the relationship between your brain and your conscious experiences? This is is the fundamental question of the work of Donald Hoffman, a professor of computer science and

The End of Cloud Computing with Peter Levine
 Podcast Friday, February 3 2017
Cloud computing has pushed computation away from our own private servers and into virtual machines running on a data center. In the world of cloud computing, processing is centralized in

Our Editorial Philosophy
 Article Sunday, February 5 2017
Software Engineering Daily started as a daily podcast about how to build software. Following my own interests, the show evolved toward a discussion of how to create a software company as

Giphy Engineering with Anthony Johnson
 Podcast Monday, February 6 2017
Giphy is a search engine for gifs, the short animated graphics that we see around the Internet. Giphy is also a creative platform where people create new gifs. Every search engine

Open Source Contribution with Shubheksha Jalan
 Podcast Tuesday, February 7 2017
Open source software is publicly available code that is worked on in the open by large crowds of developers. Almost all new software today uses some open source software in its code. But

Engineering Management with Mike Borozdin
 Podcast Wednesday, February 8 2017
Engineering managers face a different set of problems than engineers themselves. Whether they are hiring new employees, firing underperformers, or guiding a team of existing engineers,

Go Data Science with Daniel Whitenack
 Podcast Thursday, February 9 2017
Data science is typically done by engineers writing code in Python, R, or another scripting language. Lots of engineers know these languages, and their ecosystems have great library

Deep Learning with Adam Gibson
 Podcast Friday, February 10 2017
Deep learning uses neural networks to identify patterns. Neural networks allow us to sequence “layers” of computing, with each layer using learning algorithms such as unsupervised

Infrastructure with Datanauts’ Chris Wahl and Ethan Banks
 Podcast Monday, February 13 2017
Infrastructure is a term that can mean many different things: your physical computer, the data center of your Amazon EC2 cluster, the virtualization layer, the container layer–on

Service Proxying with Matt Klein
 Podcast Tuesday, February 14 2017
Most tech companies are moving toward a highly distributed microservices architecture. In this architecture, services are decoupled from each other and communicate with a common service

Data Applications With Dave King
 Podcast Wednesday, February 15 2017
Data scientists need flexible interfaces for displaying and manipulating data sets. Data engineers need to be able to visualize how their data pipelines wire together databases and data

Machine Learning is Hard with Zayd Enam
 Podcast Thursday, February 16 2017
Machine learning frameworks like Torch and TensorFlow have made the job of a machine learning engineer much easier. But machine learning is still hard. Debugging a machine learning model

Where Machines Go to Learn with Auren Hoffman
 Podcast Friday, February 17 2017
If you wanted to build a machine learning model to understand human health, where would you get the data? A hospital database would be useful, but privacy laws make it difficult to

Technically Sentient with Rob May
 Podcast Monday, February 20 2017
The impact of artificial intelligence on our everyday lives will be so profound that our modern institutions will change completely. Employment, government, romance, social

Adchain with Ken Brook
 Podcast Tuesday, February 21 2017
Online advertising is a system of transactions that involve many different players. The user visits a publisher’s website; the publisher notifies an exchange that the user is on the

RealmDB with Brian Munkholm
 Podcast Wednesday, February 22 2017
Expectations for mobile apps have gone up steadily since the iPhone was released. But the choice of databases built for mobile apps has remained limited mostly to SQLite. RealmDB was

Security Language with Jean Yang
 Podcast Thursday, February 23 2017
Security vulnerabilities are an important concern in systems. When we specify that we want certain information hidden, for example our phone number or our date of birth, we expect the

Convergence with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Friday, February 24 2017
At the first Software Engineering Daily Meetup, the speakers explored a range of topics. A few weeks ago, we published Courtland Allen’s talk about how to build a small software

Data Warehousing with Mark Rittman
 Podcast Monday, February 27 2017
In the mid 90s, data warehousing might have meant “using an Oracle database.” Today, it means a wide variety of things. You could be stitching together a big data pipeline using

Heroku Autoscaling with Andrew Gwozdziewycz
 Podcast Tuesday, February 28 2017
When an application is using all of its available resources, that application needs to be scaled. Scaling an application means giving it more resources–typically servers.

Parse and Operations with Charity Majors
 Podcast Wednesday, March 1 2017
Parse was a backend as a service company built in 2011 before being acquired by Facebook in 2013. Building a backend as a service for developers requires walking a thin line between

Equity Compensation with Joshua Levy and Joe Wallin
 Podcast Thursday, March 2 2017
When an engineer is offered a job a tech company, their compensation is often partly in cash and partly in equity–shares of the company. How should an engineer evaluate that offer?

Prototype Manufacturing with Jeff McAlvay
 Podcast Friday, March 3 2017
Manufacturing electronics is not a simple task and because of its complexity it is also quite expensive. Companies like Apple are able to pull their costs down through economies of

Cloudbleed and SHA-1 Collision with Max Burkhardt
 Podcast Saturday, March 4 2017
Thursday February 23rd was a big day in security news: details were published about the Cloudbleed bug, which leaked tons of plaintext requests from across the Internet into plain view.

Mobile Engineers with Nathan Esquenazi
 Podcast Tuesday, March 7 2017
There is too much mobile engineering work to be done and not enough mobile engineers. As a result, a talented mobile engineer will often make more money than a similarly talented web

Load Testing with Mark Gilbert
 Podcast Wednesday, March 8 2017
Load testing measures performance of a system undergoing a large volume of requests. Before an application is pushed to production, engineers will often load test their software to

Artificial Intelligence Implications with Rumman Chowdhury
 Podcast Thursday, March 9 2017
Machine learning has improved both in tools and accessibility. Frameworks like TensorFlow create the right abstractions for developers to work efficiently. Educational programs like

Using CQRS to Make Controllers Lean with Derek Comartin
 Podcast Friday, March 10 2017
Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS) is a powerful concept that has the potential to make for reliable and maintainable systems.  It is also broadly misunderstood and means

Cloud Native Investing with Lenny Pruss
 Podcast Monday, March 13 2017
Making the right engineering choices in today’s wide landscape of cloud technologies is hard. Predicting the future in order to invest in companies in this space has the same level of

Trump with Brad Taylor
 Podcast Tuesday, March 14 2017
Donald Trump has either alarmed or excited everyone in the engineering community. Some of the debates are based around innovation. Opponents to Trump say that his anti-immigration

Stripe Observability with Cory Watson
 Podcast Wednesday, March 15 2017
Observability allows engineers to understand what is going on inside their systems. In its most raw form, observability comes from log data. Modern systems have many layers of

Stripe Infrastructure with Evan Broder
 Podcast Thursday, March 16 2017
If you are building a service that processes payments, your software architecture has a lot of requirements. Not only do you need to be highly available, consistent, and fast–you

Stripe Machine Learning with Michael Manapat
 Podcast Friday, March 17 2017
Every company that deals with payments deals with fraud. The question is not whether fraud will occur on your system, but rather how much of it you can detect and prevent. If a payments

Biological Machine Learning with Jason Knight
 Podcast Monday, March 20 2017
Biology research is complex. The sample size of a biological data set is often too small to make confident judgments about the biological system being studied. During Jason Knight’s

Multiagent Systems with Peter Stone
 Podcast Tuesday, March 21 2017
Multiagent systems involve the interaction of autonomous agents that may be acting independently or in collaboration with each other. Examples of these systems include financial markets,

Wearables with Asta Roseway
 Podcast Wednesday, March 22 2017
Wearables have become more accessible to the public. Snap’s spectacles, Google Glass, FitBit, and Apple Watch suggest a future in which many people will be wearing a smart device. In

Zcash with Nathan Wilcox
 Podcast Thursday, March 23 2017
In bitcoin, every transaction in the shared ledger has the sender, recipient, and value. This ledger gets appended infinitely and is shared within a peer-to-peer network. Zcash is a

Net Neutrality with Quincy Larson
 Podcast Friday, March 24 2017
Net neutrality is the principle that internet service providers and governments regulating the internet should treat all data on the internet the same. Debates around Net Neutrality can

Product Development with Cullen Zandstra
 Podcast Monday, March 27 2017
Developing a product requires careful balance between engineering, sales, design, and customer service. The founding CTO of a company often needs to take on each of these

Software Psychology with Bjorn Freeman Benson
 Podcast Tuesday, March 28 2017
Designers and software engineers need to communicate with each other. From Apple to Slack to Uber, the emphasis on visual design within a product is rising in importance. Much like

Failure Injection with Kolton Andrus
 Podcast Wednesday, March 29 2017
Servers in a data center fail. Sometimes entire data centers have a power outage. Bugs in an application make it into production. Human operators make mistakes and cause data to be

Amazon and Uber with Brad Stone
 Podcast Thursday, March 30 2017
Big technology companies have so much going on at any given time that a journalist can tell any type of story they want to about it. Depending on what angle you observe the company from,

WebAssembly with Brendan Eich
 Podcast Friday, March 31 2017
Brendan Eich created the first version of JavaScript in 10 days. Since then JavaScript has evolved, and Brendan has watched the growth of the web give rise to new and unexpected use

Hedge Fund Artificial Intelligence with Xander Dunn
 Podcast Monday, April 3 2017
A hedge fund is a collection of investors that make bets on the future. The “hedge” refers to the fact that the investors often try to diversify their strategies so that the

Listener Q&A
 Podcast Tuesday, April 4 2017
In this episode, I gathered questions from listeners in our Slack channel and Twitter feed. The questions I answered include: How and when do you see yourself leaving SE Daily? What is

API Design Standards with Andy Beier
 Podcast Wednesday, April 5 2017
There are various standards at play when creating and consuming Application Program Interfaces (APIs).  These standards, though, are mostly technical and mostly lower-level than the

Blockchain Applications with Mike Goldin
 Podcast Thursday, April 6 2017
Cryptocurrencies are not only a financial instrument–they are a new platform for building applications. The blockchain allows for new solutions to digital property management,

Complacency with Tyler Cowen
 Podcast Friday, April 7 2017
Engineers in Silicon Valley see a world of constant progress. Our work is creative and intellectually challenging. We are building the future and getting compensated quite well for it.

LLVM with Morgan Wilde
 Podcast Monday, April 10 2017
Every program gets compiled down to 1s and 0s before it can be executed against hardware. Before being translated to machine code, programs that are written in a language like Rust,

The Future of React Native with Brent Vatne and Adam Perry
 Podcast Tuesday, April 11 2017
React Native has unlocked native mobile development to web engineers who may now apply their skills to build iOS and Android applications in JavaScript. For the first time, cross

Elasticsearch with Philipp Krenn
 Podcast Wednesday, April 12 2017
Search is a common building block for applications. Whether we are searching Wikipedia or our log files, the behavior is similar: a query is entered and the most relevant documents are

Web Tracking with Bill Budington
 Podcast Thursday, April 13 2017
The Internet is decreasing in privacy and increasing in utility. Under some conditions, this tradeoff makes sense. We publicize our profile photo so that people know what we look like.

Facebook Open Source with Tom Occhino
 Podcast Friday, April 14 2017
Facebook’s open source projects include React, GraphQL, and Cassandra. These projects are key pieces of infrastructure used by thousands of developers–including engineers at

Political Bots with Samuel Woolley
 Podcast Monday, April 17 2017
Bots on the internet can be malicious, helpful, and everything in between. A bot that responds to all of your tweets might call you a socialist–that is malicious. Google crawls the

Kenya Mobile Payments with George Gachui
 Podcast Tuesday, April 18 2017
Most people in Africa never had a desktop computer. The first computer they owned was a smart phone. This is why Africa is referred to as a “leap frog” place with regard to

Swift on the Server with Chris Bailey
 Podcast Wednesday, April 19 2017
Swift is a language that is most commonly used to write apps for Apple client devices, such as iPhones. Since being released in 2014, Swift has become one of the most popular languages

Microservices Practitioners with Austin Gunter and Richard Li
 Podcast Thursday, April 20 2017
The word “microservices” started getting used after a series of events–companies were moving to cloud virtual machines. Those VMs got broken up into containers, and the

21 with Balaji Srinivasan
 Podcast Friday, April 21 2017
Bitcoin is underappreciated even to this day. The public focus is usually on the speculative value, but Bitcoin has functional value as a technology platform. If I want to make 100

Topic Roundtable with Courtland Allen and Caleb Meredith
 Podcast Monday, April 24 2017
Software Engineering Daily examines the world through the lens of software engineering. In most episodes, an expert in a particular topic joins the show as a guest, and we go into deep

Ad Fraud In Our Own Backyard with Shailin Dhar
 Podcast Tuesday, April 25 2017
The online advertising industry is a giant casino. Giant technology companies are the casino owners, online publishers are the casino employees, the brand advertisers are the victims who

Spring Boot with Josh Long
 Podcast Wednesday, April 26 2017
Spring Framework is an application framework for Java and JVM languages. Spring was originally built around dependency injection, but grew to become an entire ecosystem of tools and

Ransomware with Tim Gallo and Allan Liska
 Podcast Thursday, April 27 2017
Ransomware uses software to extort people. A piece of ransomware might arrive in your inbox looking like a PDF, or a link to a website with a redirect. Ransomware is often distributed

Robot Assistant with Abhishek Singh
 Podcast Friday, April 28 2017
We view our iPhones as inanimate objects. But when we see robots such as the Boston Dynamics machines that move with a motion that seems like an animal, the robot comes alive. We feel

Google Brain Music Generation with Doug Eck
 Podcast Monday, May 1 2017
Most popular music today uses a computer as the central instrument. A single musician is often selecting the instruments, programming the drum loops, composing the melodies, and mixing

Data Intensive Applications with Martin Kleppmann
 Podcast Tuesday, May 2 2017
A new programmer learns to build applications using data structures like a queue, a cache, or a database. Modern cloud applications are built using more sophisticated tools like Redis,

Sorry We Crashed Your Podcast Player
 Article 
We started putting transcripts in some of our podcast posts 2 months ago. Each transcription was an hour’s worth of audio conversation, which equaled a LOT of text when transcribed.
Zencastr with Josh Nielsen
 Podcast Wednesday, May 3 2017
There are certain experiences when a product solves a problem so thoroughly and elegantly that it lifts a weight off of your shoulders that you didn’t even know was there. Dropbox did

Washington Post Engineering with Jarrod Dicker
 Podcast Thursday, May 4 2017
The Washington Post was acquired by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos in 2013. Since then, the newspaper has started thinking more like a software company, opting to build new software rather than

CRISPR with Geoff Ralston
 Podcast Friday, May 5 2017
CRISPR is a technique for altering the human genome. It might be the most powerful tool for biological modification that we have ever discovered. In this episode, we explore CRISPR: how

Automation with Haseeb Qureshi and Quincy Larson
 Podcast Monday, May 8 2017
Suddenly, automation is changing our world faster than anyone anticipated. For technologists, the world is becoming convenient and high-leverage. For non-technologists, the job market is

Software Consulting with Rachel Laycock
 Podcast Tuesday, May 9 2017
Software consultancies solve problems involving management and software engineering. A large company might hire a software consulting company to give an external opinion on software

Convolutional Neural Networks with Matt Zeiler
 Podcast Wednesday, May 10 2017
Convolutional neural networks are a machine learning tool that uses layers of convolution and pooling to process and classify inputs. CNNs are useful for identifying objects in images

Tech in the Middle East with Chris Schroeder
 Podcast Thursday, May 11 2017
Many countries in the developing world are undergoing a technological revolution which is shaping how they tackle problems around infrastructure, health, education and finance. Young

Poker Artificial Intelligence with Noam Brown
 Podcast Friday, May 12 2017
Humans have now been defeated by computers at heads up no-limit holdem poker. Some people thought this wouldn’t be possible. Sure, we can teach a computer to beat a human at Go or

Artsy with Daniel Doubrovkine
 Podcast Monday, May 15 2017
Artsy is an online art marketplace. This might sound like a simple engineering problem–you just set up a basic ecommerce site, list some pieces of art, and start making money,

Digital Ownership with Chris Groskopf
 Podcast Tuesday, May 16 2017
When you purchase an ebook you must agree to the Terms of Service that tell you what you can do with it. What is actually in that terms of service? What are you agreeing to when you buy

Firebase with Doug Stevenson
 Podcast Wednesday, May 17 2017
Firebase is a backend-as-a-service. The key efficiency of a backend-as-a-service is that it enables developers to go from having a 3-tier architecture (client, server, database) to a

Oil and Gas Data with Evan Anderson
 Podcast Thursday, May 18 2017
Public data is not always so accessible. It is nice when you can request data simply by making an API call, but that is the exception rather than the rule–especially when we are

Cloud Native Projects with Dan Kohn
 Podcast Friday, May 19 2017
Cloud computing changed how we develop applications for the web. Over the last decade, engineers have been learning how to build software in this new paradigm. The costs have gone down,

Microservices Transition with Cassandra Shum
 Podcast Monday, May 22 2017
Many companies are transitioning from a monolith to microservices architecture. Tools for cloud computing, containerization, and continuous delivery are making this easier. But there are

Healthcare Engineering with Isaac Councill
 Podcast Tuesday, May 23 2017
Healthcare is a complex business. Oscar is a company that wanted to build a new insurance provider–but realized that healthcare is so interconnected that in order to build a new

Relay Modern with Lee Byron and Joe Savona
 Podcast Wednesday, May 24 2017
Relay is a JavaScript framework for building data-driven React applications. Facebook open sourced Relay around the same time they open sourced GraphQL, and Facebook expected Relay to be

Universal Healthcare with Thomas Bukowski
 Podcast Thursday, May 25 2017
Everyone in the world should have some basic level of guaranteed healthcare. This is not controversial. But what should that basic level of healthcare be? Should it extend into the later

Off-Grid Social Network with Andre Staltz
 Podcast Friday, May 26 2017
Social networks like Facebook and Twitter facilitate interactions between individuals. Every message I send to you on Facebook goes through Facebook’s servers before reaching you. This

iOS and Podcasts with Rob Walch
 Podcast Tuesday, May 30 2017
Apple controls the iOS ecosystem. As an accident of history, Apple also controls the podcasting ecosystem. Unlike most ecosystems within Apple’s dominion, podcasts remain open. A

Data Skepticism with Kyle Polich
 Podcast Wednesday, May 31 2017
With a fast-growing field like data science, it is important to keep some amount of skepticism. Tools can be overhyped, buzzwords can be overemphasized, and people can forget the

CosmosDB with Andrew Hoh
 Podcast Thursday, June 1 2017
Different databases have different access patterns. Key-value, document, graph, and columnar databases are useful under different circumstances. For example, if you are a bank, and you

GitLab with Pablo Carranza
 Podcast Friday, June 2 2017
On January 31st 2017, GitLab experienced a major outage of their online repository hosting service. The primary database server experienced data loss due to a combination of malicious

Video Object Segmentation with the DAVIS Challenge Team
 Podcast Monday, June 5 2017
Video object segmentation allows computer vision to identify objects as they move through space in a video. The DAVIS challenge is a contest among machine learning researchers working

DNS with Phil Stanhope
 Podcast Tuesday, June 6 2017
DNS stands for domain name system. This is the naming system that maps the entire internet. It associates information with domain names. More specifically, DNS specifies mappings between

Skepticism Roundtable with Ammon Bartram and Kyle Polich
 Podcast Wednesday, June 7 2017
Engineers have plenty to be skeptical about. We look to data sets to give us something resembling objective truth. Some areas of research have so many variables that it is hard to

Container Engines with David Aronchick and Chen Goldberg
 Podcast Thursday, June 8 2017
Kubernetes makes it easier for engineering teams to manage their distributed systems architecture. But it’s still not simple to deploy and operate a Kubernetes cluster. Google

Microsoft History with Richard Campbell
 Podcast Friday, June 9 2017
Microsoft’s past is full of stories. It’s early period of corporate domination in the 1990s was followed by a period of government antitrust scrutiny, and a period of unsure product

Serverless on Kubernetes with Soam Vasani
 Podcast Monday, June 12 2017
Kubernetes is an orchestration system for managing containers. Since it was open sourced by Google, Kubernetes has created a wave of innovation in the infrastructure technology space.

Event Driven Serverless with Sebastien Goasgoen
 Podcast Tuesday, June 13 2017
Modern architectures often consist of containers that run services. Those containers scale up and down depending on the demand for the services. These large software systems often use a

Distributed Deep Learning with Will Constable
 Podcast Wednesday, June 14 2017
Deep learning allows engineers to build models that can make decisions based on training data. These models improve over time using stochastic gradient descent. When a model gets big

Data Teams with Rya Sciban
 Podcast Thursday, June 15 2017
A data-driven organization is more efficient because the company can learn what to focus on. In this episode, Edaena Salinas from The Women in Tech Show interviews Rya Sciban, Product

Google Early Days with John Looney
 Podcast Friday, June 16 2017
John Looney spent more than 10 years at Google. He started with infrastructure, and was part of the team that migrated Google File System to Colossus, the successor to GFS. Imagine

IoT Edge with Olivier Bloch
 Podcast Monday, June 19 2017
A self-driving car needs to be able to quickly respond to changes in driving conditions. A factory needs to be able to quickly respond to changes in workplace safety. For these kinds of

Software Architecture with Simon Brown
 Podcast Tuesday, June 20 2017
Software architecture address the challenge of communicating and navigating large, complex systems to stakeholders, both technical and non-technical.  Over the years software

Episode 500 with Pranay Mohan and Erika Hokanson
 Podcast Wednesday, June 21 2017
Software Engineering Daily has been around for almost two years. In this episode Pranay Mohan and Erika Hokanson join me for a reflection on where we have been and where we are going.

Hackathons with Lizette Chapman
 Podcast Thursday, June 22 2017
Professional hackathon programmers travel around the hackathon circuit, winning merchandise and small cash prizes. There are enough hackathons that some programmers actually do this as a

Search Engine Land with Danny Sullivan
 Article Friday, June 23 2017
Search engines run our lives. The path we take to information is dictated by Google, Facebook, Amazon, and other forms of search. Search engines feel objective and truthful, but are

Service Mesh with William Morgan
 Podcast Monday, June 26 2017
Containers make it easier for engineers to deploy software. Orchestration systems like Kubernetes make it easier to manage and scale the different containers that contain services. The

Istio Service Mesh with Varun Talwar and Louis Ryan
 Podcast Tuesday, June 27 2017
Modern software applications are often built out of loosely coupled microservices. These services can be written in different languages, by different people, but communication between

Linux Kernel Governance with Greg Kroah-Hartman
 Podcast Wednesday, June 28 2017
The code in the Linux kernel changes all the time–11k lines are added, 5.8k lines are removed, and 2k lines are modified DAILY. Linux is an open source operating system that has

Instacart Data Science with Jeremy Stanley
 Podcast Thursday, June 29 2017
Instacart is a grocery delivery service. Customers log onto the website or mobile app and pick their groceries. Shoppers at the store get those groceries off the shelves. Drivers pick up

Computer Logic with Chris Dixon
 Podcast Friday, June 30 2017
The history of computing can be thought of as a series of ideas rather than objects. From Aristotle’s formalization of the syllogism, to Alan Turing’s model for an all-purpose

Culture Fit with Ammon Bartram
 Podcast Monday, July 3 2017
“Culture fit” is a term that is used to describe engineers that have the right personality for a given company. In the hiring process, “lack of culture fit” is used to turn away

New Topic Feeds
 Podcast Wednesday, July 5 2017
Listeners have had difficulty finding the Software Engineering Daily content they want to listen to. We are creating new podcast feeds to address this. The content on each podcast feed
React Native Ecosystem with Nader Dabit
 Podcast Thursday, July 6 2017
React Native allows developers to reuse components from one user interface on multiple platforms. React Native was introduced by Facebook to reduce the pain of teams who were rewriting

React Native Interfaces with Leland Richardson
 Podcast Friday, July 7 2017
Airbnb is a company that is driven by design. New user interfaces are dreamed up by designers and implemented for web, iOS, and Android. This implementation process takes a lot of

Fighting Fraud at Coinbase with Soups Ranjan
 Podcast Sunday, July 9 2017
A cryptocurrency exchange faces a uniquely difficult fraud problem. A hacker who steals my credentials can initiate a transfer of all my bitcoin to another wallet, and it is a

Kafka in the Cloud with Neha Narkhede
 Podcast Monday, July 10 2017
Apache Kafka is an open-source distributed streaming platform. Kafka was originally developed at LinkedIn, and the creators of the project eventually left LinkedIn and started Confluent,

Deployment with Avi Cavale
 Podcast Tuesday, July 11 2017
Software deployment evolves over time. In the 90s, a “deployment” might have meant issuing a new edition of your software via CD-ROM. Today, a deployment is often a multi-stage

Coinbase Currencies with Linda Xie and Jordan Clifford
 Podcast Wednesday, July 12 2017
Cryptocurrencies have seen a surge of value recently. People are starting to see that bitcoin, ethereum, and other currencies are not just for speculation. At worst, they are a store of

Coinbase Antifraud with Soups Ranjan
 Podcast Thursday, July 13 2017
Coinbase is a platform for buying and selling digital currency: bitcoin, ethereum, and litecoin. Every payments company deals with fraud, but a cryptocurrency company has a harder job

Coinbase Security with Philip Martin
 Podcast Friday, July 14 2017
At Coinbase, security is more important than anything else. Coinbase is a company that allows for storage and exchange of cryptocurrencies. Protecting banking infrastructure is

MRuby and Language Security with Daniel Bovensiepen
 Podcast Monday, July 17 2017
Shopify is a company that helps customers build custom online storefronts. Shopify has built upon the same Ruby on Rails application since the founding of their business 12 years ago

Backups with Kenny To
 Podcast Tuesday, July 18 2017
Every software company backs up critical data sources. Backing up databases is a common procedure, whether a company is in the cloud or on-prem. Backing up virtual machine instances is

Simple Programmer with John Sonmez
 Podcast Wednesday, July 19 2017
Software engineers have a skill set that can be applied to solve problems outside of a codebase. Analytical skills can be used to evaluate investment opportunities. Creative thinking can

Apparel Machine Learning with Colan Connon and Thomas Bell
 Podcast Thursday, July 20 2017
In its most basic definition, machine learning is a tool that makes takes a data set, finds a correlation in that data set, and uses that correlation to improve a system. Any complex

Reinforcement Learning with Michal Kempa
 Podcast Friday, July 21 2017
Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning where a program learns how to take actions in an environment based on how that program has been rewarded for actions it took in the

Container Networking with Dan Williams
 Podcast Monday, July 24 2017
Containers are widely used in projects that have adopted Docker, Kubernetes, or Mesos. Containers allow for better resource isolation and scalability. With all of the adoption of

Software in Latin America with Mariana Costa
 Podcast Tuesday, July 25 2017
Access to education is something everyone strives for but not all achieve–especially education that leads to meaningful and well-paying work. In today’s world where software

Startup Roundtable with Joseph Jacks and Gregory Koberger
 Podcast Wednesday, July 26 2017
Building a startup requires constant evaluation of tradeoffs. At the earliest stage, the founders evaluate different ideas. Once an idea is settled on, the company develops strategies

Microsoft Developers with Jason Young and Carl Schweitzer
 Podcast Thursday, July 27 2017
A decade ago, a Microsoft developer might have been defined by the fact that they built C# applications on Windows. Today, a Microsoft developer is just as likely to be writing

Self-Driving Deep Learning with Lex Fridman
 Podcast Friday, July 28 2017
Self-driving cars are here. Fully autonomous systems like Waymo are being piloted in less complex circumstances. Human-in-the-loop systems like Tesla Autopilot navigate drivers when it

Health Wearables with Haiyan Zhang
 Podcast Monday, July 31 2017
Wearables are everywhere. In the medical field they are transforming lives. Haiyan Zhang, Innovation Director at Microsoft Research, created a wearable for a young graphic designer that

Patents with Nicole Shanahan
 Podcast Tuesday, August 1 2017
Patents allow individuals and company to lay creative claim for an invention. A patent can provide protection from having its idea being used without giving credit to its creators. Of

Platform Continuous Delivery with Andy Appleton
 Podcast Wednesday, August 2 2017
Continuous delivery is a model for deploying small, frequent changes to an application. In a continuous delivery workflow, code changes that are pushed to a repository set off a build

Quantum Computing with Vijay Pande
 Podcast Thursday, August 3 2017
Quantum computing is based on the system of quantum mechanics. In quantum computing, we perform operations over qubits instead of bits. A qubit is a vector, which can take on many more

Serverless Startup with Yan Cui
 Podcast Friday, August 4 2017
After raising $18 million, social networking startup Yubl made a series of costly mistakes. Yubl hired an army of expensive contractors to build out its iOS and Android apps. Drama at

Serverless Continuous Delivery with Robin Weston
 Podcast Monday, August 7 2017
Serverless computing reduces the cost of using the cloud. Serverless also makes it easy to scale applications. The downside: building serverless apps requires some mindset shift.

IoT Overview with Jeremy Foster
 Podcast Tuesday, August 8 2017
The Internet of Things is the concept that traditionally analog objects, like thermostats and lightbulbs, can be given digital guts and connected to the internet to create more value for

State of JavaScript with Sacha Greif
 Podcast Wednesday, August 9 2017
JavaScript is moving so fast. It’s not easy to keep up with all of the frameworks, build tools, and packages. No other language spans frontend to backend, mobile to web to server.

Lottie Animation with Brandon Withrow and Gabriel Peal
 Podcast Thursday, August 10 2017
Animations make an application more fun and engaging. For most apps, animation is an afterthought. Developers are concerned with getting the functionality right, and designers have

TypeScript at Slack with Felix Rieseberg
 Podcast Friday, August 11 2017
Slack is an application for team communication. Users chat across mobile devices, web browsers, and a desktop application, which means Slack has three places to deploy on rather than

Open Compute Project with Steve Helvie
 Podcast Monday, August 14 2017
Facebook was rapidly outgrowing its infrastructure in 2009. Classic data center design was not up to the task of the rapid influx of new users and data, photos and streaming video

QA Testing with Jonathan Alexander
 Podcast Tuesday, August 15 2017
Quality assurance testing is a form of testing that closely mirrors user behavior. Sometimes it is manual, sometimes it is automated. Automated QA tests are scripts that validate correct

Building Developer Communities with Juan Pablo Buriticá
 Podcast Wednesday, August 16 2017
Building and nurturing a developer community is hard work but it is vital for the growth of a country’s technology ecosystem. When communities coalesce around programming

GatsbyJS with Kyle Mathews
 Podcast Thursday, August 17 2017
GatsbyJS is a framework for building web applications for JavaScript. Gatsby’s original goal was to allow users to create super fast static web sites that could be hosted and served

Error Diagnosis with James Smith
 Podcast Friday, August 18 2017
When a user experiences an error in an application, the engineers who are building that application need to find out why that error occurred. The root cause of that error may be on the

Augmented Reality with Jesse Bounds and Siyu Song
 Podcast Monday, August 21 2017
Augmented reality is coming at us fast. Every large tech company is rumored to be building an AR product. Microsoft HoloLens is already available to developers. Pokemon Go, the most

Similarity Search with Jeff Johnson
 Podcast Tuesday, August 22 2017
Querying a search index for objects similar to a given object is a common problem. A user who has just read a great news article might want to read articles similar to it. A user who has

Ad Fraud Overview with Shailin Dhar
 Podcast Wednesday, August 23 2017
The Internet runs on advertising. Advertising is subject to fraud–but then again, so is every system of online transactions. The amount of money lost in electronic payments fraud

Advertiser Bidding with Praneet Sharma
 Podcast Thursday, August 24 2017
Content websites are supported by advertising. Most of the advertisements around the internet are dynamic ad slots that change depending on the user who visits the site. Those dynamic ad

Internet Extremism with Lochlan Bloom
 Podcast Friday, August 25 2017
Religious extremists use technology to recruit vulnerable individuals to a violent cause. Google is developing ways to combat this extremism through its platforms, namely YouTube. When a

Cloud-Native SQL with Alex Robinson
 Podcast Monday, August 28 2017
Applications built in the cloud are often serving requests from all around the world. A user in Hong Kong could have written to a database entry at the moment just before a user in San

Sales Software with Jean-Baptiste Escoyez
 Podcast Tuesday, August 29 2017
Most products do not sell themselves. Salespeople bridge the gap between a product creation and a customer who purchases it. People can make a good living on the internet selling niche

Industrial IoT with Jayson Delancey
 Podcast Wednesday, August 30 2017
Sensors are being attached to trains, lightposts, and all kinds of factory equipment. Industrial machinery gives off high volumes of data that can be captured, stored, and processed with

Healthcare AI with Cosima Gretton
 Podcast Friday, September 1 2017
Automation will make healthcare more efficient and less prone to error. Today, machine learning is already being used to diagnose diabetic retinopathy and improve radiology accuracy.

Information Theory with Jimmy Soni and Rob Goodman
 Podcast Monday, September 4 2017
We write code in a language that looks like English. Whether it is JavaScript, Fortran, or assembly language, that code is an abstraction on top of layers of intermediate languages,

Artificial Intelligence APIs with Simon Chan
 Podcast Tuesday, September 5 2017
Software companies that have been around for a decade have a ton of data. Modern machine learning techniques are able to turn that data into extremely useful models. Salesforce users

Car and IoT Security with Chris Craig
 Podcast Wednesday, September 6 2017
Ransomware and DDoS attacks happen all the time. Sometimes they affect large swaths of users. WannaCry ransomware froze the computer systems in hospitals. Mirai botnet DDoS attacks took

Attack Attribution with John Davis
 Podcast Thursday, September 7 2017
When a cyber attack occurs, how do we identify who committed it? There is no straightforward answer to that question. Even if we know Chinese hackers have infiltrated our power grid with

Software Engineering Daily App with Keith and Craig Holliday
 Podcast Friday, September 8 2017
You have probably missed some of the best episodes of Software Engineering Daily. If you listen to just a few episodes a week, it can be difficult to identify the high quality shows. And

DAO Hack with Matt Leising
 Podcast Monday, September 11 2017
The Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) was a digital form of venture capital. It was an ambitious idea–to provide a new decentralized business model for organizing

Word2Vec with Adrian Colyer
 Podcast Wednesday, September 13 2017
Machines understand the world through mathematical representations. In order to train a machine learning model, we need to describe everything in terms of numbers.  Images, words, and

Doing Anything with George Anders
 Podcast Thursday, September 14 2017
Software gives us new ways of communicating with each other. Engineers build scalable systems for e-commerce, helpdesk, and video sharing–and these systems do scale, to millions of

Visual Search with Neel Vadoothker
 Podcast Friday, September 15 2017
If I have a picture of a dog, and I want to search the Internet for pictures that look like that dog, how can I do that? I need to make an algorithm to build an index of all the pictures

Advertising Analytics with Jonah Goodhart
 Podcast Saturday, September 16 2017
Moat is one of the most successful advertising technology companies in history. After building a business from measurement of ad impressions, Moat was sold to Oracle for $850 million.

Spotify Event Delivery with Igor Maravic
 Podcast Monday, September 18 2017
Spotify is a streaming music company with more than 50 million users. Whenever a user listens to a song, Spotify records that event and uses it as input to learn more about the user’s

Deep Learning Systems with Milena Marinova
 Podcast Tuesday, September 19 2017
The applications that demand deep learning range from self-driving cars to healthcare, but the way that models are developed and trained is similar. A model is trained in the cloud and

Brave Browser with Jonathan Sampson
 Podcast Wednesday, September 20 2017
Online advertising enables free content and services of the Internet. One of the free services that is powered by advertising is the browser. 60% of web browsing is done through Chrome,

Tinder Growth Engineering with Alex Ross
 Podcast Thursday, September 21 2017
Tinder is a popular dating app where each user swipes through a sequence of other users in order to find a match. Swiping left means you are not interested. Swiping right means you would

The Coding VC with Leo Polovets
 Podcast Friday, September 22 2017
The underlying cause of failure for many startups is that the founders are afraid of discomfort. An environment where everyone is comfortable is unlikely to be an environment where

Static Analysis with Paul Anderson
 Podcast Monday, September 25 2017
Static analysis is the process of evaluating code for errors, memory leaks, and security vulnerabilities. The “static” part refers to the fact that the code is not running. This

Dashboarding and Query Latency with Tom O’Neill
 Podcast Tuesday, September 26 2017
A dashboard is a data visualization that aggregates metrics in a way that we can quickly understand. In a modern software company, everyone uses dashboards–from salespeople to

Video Infrastructure with Matt McClure and Jon Dahl
 Podcast Wednesday, September 27 2017
Playing a video on the Internet seems simple. You press play, the video gets delivered, and boom–you are watching Game of Thrones, right? It’s a bit more complicated. Unless you

Alerting and Metrics with Clement Pang
 Podcast Thursday, September 28 2017
An alert is a signal of problematic application behavior. When something unusual happens to your application, an alert can bring that anomaly to your attention. In order to detect

Sports Deep Learning with Yu-Han Chang and Jeff Su
 Podcast Friday, September 29 2017
A basketball game gives off endless amounts of data. Cameras from all angles capture the players making their way around the court, dribbling, passing, and shooting. With computer

ReactVR with Andrew Imm
 Podcast Monday, October 2 2017
React is a programming model for user interfaces. ReactJS is for building user interfaces for web applications. React Native is for building UI on Android or iOS. ReactVR is for building

42 Coding School with Brittany Bir
 Podcast Tuesday, October 3 2017
42 is tuition-free developer school for students from 18-30. It was started by Xavier Niel, a French billionaire who wanted to encourage a new model of software education. 42 has

User Management with Michel Feaster
 Podcast Wednesday, October 4 2017
A customer engages with a company across a variety of channels–email, Zendesk, Salesforce, online advertising. Unifying those data sources and getting a dashboard into the entire

Ad Fraud Science with Augustine Fou
 Podcast Thursday, October 5 2017
Advertising fraud continues to plague the Internet. We do not know the scope and scale of that fraud. How many ads on the Internet are viewed by bots? Estimations range from 2% to 99%.

Advertiser Trust with Marc Goldberg
 Podcast Friday, October 6 2017
Despite all the problems with online advertising, ads are not going away. Advertising is fundamental to the modern Internet economy. In previous episodes of Software Engineering Daily,

Tinder Engineering Management with Bryan Li
 Podcast Monday, October 9 2017
Tinder is a rapidly growing social network for meeting people and dating. In the past few years, Tinder’s userbase has grown rapidly, and the engineering team has scaled to meet the

Bitcoin Segwit with Jordan Clifford
 Podcast Tuesday, October 10 2017
Visa processes 1,600 transactions per second. PayPal processes 193 transactions per second. Bitcoin processes only 3-4 transactions per second. In order to fulfill the dreams of

Ethereum Platform with Preethi Kasireddy
 Podcast Wednesday, October 11 2017
Ethereum is a decentralized transaction-based state machine. Ethereum was designed to make smart contracts more usable for developers. Smart contracts are decentralized programs that

Blockchain Building with Daniel van Flymen
 Podcast Thursday, October 12 2017
A blockchain is a data structure that provides decentralized, peer-to-peer data distribution. Bitcoin is the most well-known blockchain, but in the next decade we will see many more

Gigster with Roger Dickey
 Podcast Friday, October 13 2017
You have heard the phrase: every company is becoming a software company. An insurance company is now supposed to turn into a software company that sells insurance. A clothing retailer

Scala Native with Denys Shabalin
 Podcast Monday, October 16 2017
Scala is a functional and object oriented programming language built on the JVM. Scala Native takes this language, loved by many, and brings it to bare metal. Scala Native is an

Internet Monitoring with Matt Kraning
 Podcast Tuesday, October 17 2017
How would you build a system for indexing and monitoring the entire Internet? Start by breaking the Internet up into IP address ranges. Give each of those address ranges to servers

Model Training with Yufeng Guo
 Podcast Wednesday, October 18 2017
Machine learning models can be built by plotting points in space and optimizing a function based off of those points. For example, I can plot every person in the United States in a 3

Interviewing.io with Aline Lerner
 Podcast Thursday, October 19 2017
Interviewing engineers is not a solved problem. Quite the opposite–everyone in the software industry will tell you their own personal issues with the hiring process. One reason

Smart Contract Security with Emin Gün Sirer
 Podcast Friday, October 20 2017
A smart contract is a program that allows for financial transactions. Smart contracts are usually associated with the Ethereum platform, which has a language called Solidity that makes

Quantum Computing Introduction with Zlatko Minev
 Podcast Monday, October 23 2017
Computer chips have physical limitations. When transistors get too small, electrons start to behave in ways that make the hardware modules less reliable. Our reliable technological

Keybase with Max Krohn
 Podcast Tuesday, October 24 2017
Public key encryption allows for encrypted, private messages. A message sent from Bob to Alice gets encrypted using Alice’s public key. Public key encryption also allows for signed

Dremio with Tomer Shiran
 Podcast Wednesday, October 25 2017
The MapReduce paper was published by Google in 2004. MapReduce is an algorithm that describes how to do large-scale data processing on large clusters of commodity hardware. The MapReduce

IFTTT Architecture with Nicky Leach
 Podcast Thursday, October 26 2017
It’s 9pm at night, and you are hungry. You order a pizza from Domino’s. You live on a street that’s dark, and so you have installed a smart lightbulb in front of your mailbox that

Analyse Asia with Bernard Leong
 Podcast Friday, October 27 2017
In America, the tech companies we focus on are commonly known as FAANG: Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google. We all know what these companies do because they impact our daily lives.

Cryptoeconomics with Vlad Zamfir
 Podcast Saturday, October 28 2017
A cryptocurrency has a distributed ledger called a blockchain. The blockchain keeps track of every transaction that occurs across the cryptocurrency. This blockchain must stay up-to-date

Kafka at NY Times with Boerge Svingen
 Podcast Monday, October 30 2017
The New York Times is a newspaper that evolved into a digital publication. Across its 166 year history, The Times has been known for longform journalistic quality, in addition to its

Elastic Load Balancing with Ranga Rajagopalan
 Podcast Tuesday, October 31 2017
Computational load is the amount of demand that is being placed on a computer system. “Load” can take the form of memory, CPU, network bandwidth, disk space, and other finite

Augmented Reality with Scott Montgomerie
 Podcast Wednesday, November 1 2017
Augmented reality applications are slowly making their way into the world of the consumer. Pokemon Go created the magical experience of seeing Pokemon superimposed upon the real world.

Bad Men with Bob Hoffman
 Podcast Thursday, November 2 2017
In the 1960s, advertising agencies were high-dollar creative producers. A client would come to an ad agency and pay millions of dollars for artistic messaging that would convince a

Parlaying Failure to Fortune with Paul Martino
 Podcast Friday, November 3 2017
In 2003, Paul Martino co-founded Tribe.net, one of the earliest social networking sites.  Tribe had significant traction, with hundreds of thousands of users. In the early 2000s,

Serverless Authentication with Bobby Johnson
 Podcast Monday, November 6 2017
Serverless architecture is software that runs without an addressable server. Serverless is made possible by two types of technology: platform as a service providers like Auth0, and

Netflix Serverless-like Platform with Vasanth Asokan
 Podcast Tuesday, November 7 2017
The Netflix API is accessed by developers who build for over 1000 device types: TVs, smartphontes, VR headsets, laptops. If it has a screen, it can probably run Netflix. On each of these

OpenBazaar with Brian Hoffman
 Podcast Wednesday, November 8 2017
Cryptocurrencies give us a decentralized financial system. OpenBazaar is a decentralized commerce system. A merchant can log onto OpenBazaar and post a listing for an item–for

Early Investments with Semil Shah
 Podcast Thursday, November 9 2017
An engineer who wants to start a business using investment capital needs to understand the expectations of investors. The market for the business needs to be huge. The team needs to have

Legal Technology with Justin Kan
 Podcast Friday, November 10 2017
Imagine that you are a lawyer. Your work involves managing files with dense, technical text. Your co-workers collaborate with you to accomplish a complex goal that can be broken down

BigQuery with Jordan Tigani
 Podcast Monday, November 13 2017
Large-scale data analysis was pioneered by Google, with the MapReduce paper. Since then, Google’s approach to analytics has evolved rapidly, marked by papers such as Dataflow and

Serverless Event-Driven Architecture with Danilo Poccia
 Podcast Tuesday, November 14 2017
In an event driven application, each component of application logic emits events, which other parts of the application respond to. We have examined this pattern in previous shows that

Fiverr Engineering with Gil Sheinfeld
 Podcast Wednesday, November 15 2017
As the gig economy grows, that growth necessitates innovations in the online infrastructure powering these new labor markets. In our previous episodes about Uber, we explored the systems

High Volume Event Processing with John-Daniel Trask
 Podcast Thursday, November 16 2017
A popular software application serves billions of user requests. These requests could be for many different things. These requests need to be routed to the correct destination, load

Training the Machines with Russell Smith
 Podcast Friday, November 17 2017
Automation is changing the labor market. To automate a task, someone needs to put in the work to describe the task correctly to a computer. For some tasks, the reward for automating a

Run Less Software with Rich Archbold
 Podcast Monday, November 20 2017
There is a quote from Jeff Bezos: “70% of the work of building a business today is undifferentiated heavy lifting. Only 30% is creative work. Things will be more exciting when those

Incident Response with Emil Stolarsky
 Podcast Tuesday, November 21 2017
As a system becomes more complex, the chance of failure increases. At a large enough scale, failures are inevitable. Incident response is the practice of preparing for and effectively

Load Balancing at Scale with Vivek Panyam
 Podcast Wednesday, November 22 2017
Facebook serves interactive content to billions of users. Google serves query requests on the world’s biggest search engine. Uber handles a significant percentage of the transportation

Marketplace Matching with Xing Chen
 Podcast Monday, November 27 2017
The labor market is moving online. Taxi drivers are joining Uber and Lyft. Digital freelancers are selling their services through Fiverr. Experienced software contractors are leaving

Thumbtack Infrastructure with Nate Kupp
 Podcast Tuesday, November 28 2017
Thumbtack is a marketplace for real-world services. On Thumbtack, people get their house painted, their dog walked, and their furniture assembled. With 40,000 daily marketplace

How IBM Runs Its Cloud with Jason McGee
 Podcast Wednesday, November 29 2017
Cloud computing changed the economics of running a software company. A cloud is a network of data centers that offers compute resources to developers. In the 1990s, software companies

React and GraphQL at New York Times
 Podcast Thursday, November 30 2017
Are we a media company or a technology company? Facebook and the New York Times are both asking themselves this question. Facebook originally intended to focus only on building

Animating VueJS with Sarah Drasner
 Podcast Friday, December 1 2017
Most user interfaces that we interact with are not animated. We click on a button, and a form blinks into view. We click a link and the page abruptly changes. On the other hand, when we

Serverless Scheduling with Rodric Rabbah
 Podcast Monday, December 4 2017
Functions as a service are deployable functions that run without an addressable server. Functions as a service scale without any work by the developer. When you deploy a function as a

Secure Authentication with Praneet Sharma
 Podcast Tuesday, December 5 2017
When I log into my bank account from my laptop, I first enter my banking password. Then the bank sends a text message to my phone with a unique code, and I enter that code into my

Data Science Mindset with Zacharias Voulgaris
 Podcast Wednesday, December 6 2017
A company’s approach to data can make or break the business. In the past, data was static. There was not much data, it sat in Excel, and it was interacted with on a nightly or monthly

Serverless Applications with Randall Hunt
 Podcast Thursday, December 7 2017
Developers can build networked applications today without having to deploy their code to a server. These “serverless” applications are constructed from managed services and

Decentralized Objects with Martin Kleppman
 Podcast Friday, December 8 2017
The Internet was designed as a decentralized system. Theoretically, if Alice wants to send an email to Bob, she can set up an email client on her computer and send that email to Bob’s

Scalable Multiplayer Games with Yan Cui
 Podcast Monday, December 11 2017
Remember when the best game you could play on your phone was Snake? In 1998, Snake was preloaded on Nokia phones, and it was massively popular. That same year Half-Life won game of the

Cloud Marketplace with Zack Bloom
 Podcast Tuesday, December 12 2017
Ten years ago, if you wanted to build software, you probably needed to know how to write code. Today, the line between “technical” and “non-technical” people is blurring. Website

Engineering Values with Lynne Tye
 Podcast Wednesday, December 13 2017
The values system of a company guides the actions of the engineers who work at that company. Some companies value open communication and a flat organization where anybody can talk to

Scala at Duolingo with Andre Kenji Horie
 Podcast Thursday, December 14 2017
Duolingo is a language learning platform with over 200 million users. On a daily basis millions of users receive customized language lessons targeted specifically to them. These lessons

High Volume Logging with Steve Newman
 Podcast Friday, December 15 2017
Google Docs is used by millions of people to collaborate on documents together. With today’s technology, you could spend a weekend coding and build a basic version of a collaborative

Protocol Buffers with Kenton Varda
 Podcast Monday, December 18 2017
When engineers are writing code, they are manipulating objects. You might have a user object represented on your computer, and that user object has several different fields—a name, a

Hacker Noon with David Smooke
 Podcast Tuesday, December 19 2017
The New York Times makes most of its money off of subscriptions. Facebook makes its money off of native advertising. Hacker News is funded by Y-Combinator. Each of these business models

Managing Engineers with Ron Lichty
 Podcast Wednesday, December 20 2017
“Management is about human beings. Its task is to make people capable of joint performance. To make their strengths effective and their weaknesses irrelevant.” That quote is from

React Components with Max Stoiber
 Podcast Thursday, December 21 2017
Modern frontend development is about components. Whether we are building an application in React, Vue, or Angular, components are the abstractions that we build our user interfaces out

Modern War with Peter Warren Singer
 Podcast Friday, December 22 2017
Military force is powered by software. The drones that are used to kill suspected terrorists can identify those terrorists using the same computer vision tools that are used to identify

Machine Learning and Technical Debt with D. Sculley Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Monday, December 25 2017
Originally published November 17, 2015 “Changing anything changes everything.” Technical debt, referring to the compounding cost of changes to software architecture, can be

Knowledge-Based Programming with Stephen Wolfram Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Tuesday, December 26 2017
Originally published November 10, 2015 “The cloud as an environment – I had thought it was a purely utilitarian kind of thing. What I realized is that it’s a fascinating

Software and Entrepreneurship with Seth Godin Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Wednesday, December 27 2017
Originally published November 18, 2015 “The playing field has never ever been more leveled – that means everything you don’t build is your choice not to build it.” Seth Godin is

Language Design with Brian Kernighan Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Thursday, December 28 2017
Originally published January 6, 2016 “The best computer science is the kind where the theory is inspired by some practical problem, you develop a better theoretical understanding of

Dwarf Fortress with Tarn Adams Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Friday, December 29 2017
Originally published October 22, 2015 “The official motto that we have in our help manual is ‘Losing is fun!’ ” Dwarf Fortress is a construction and management simulation

Cloud Foundry with Rupa Nandi
 Podcast Wednesday, January 3 2018
Cloud Foundry is an open-source platform as a service for deploying and managing web applications. Cloud Foundry is widely used by enterprises who are running applications that are built

Spring Data with John Blum
 Podcast Thursday, January 4 2018
In the 1980s and the 1990s, most applications used only a relational database for their data management. In the early 2000s, software projects started to use an ever increasing number of

Cloud R&D with Onsi Fakhouri
 Podcast Friday, January 5 2018
In the first 10 years of cloud computing, a set of technologies emerge that every software enterprise needs; continuous delivery, version control, logging, monitoring, routing, data

Kubernetes Usability with Joe Beda
 Podcast Monday, January 8 2018
Docker was released in 2013, and popularized the use of containers. A container is an abstraction for isolating a well-defined portion of an operating system. Developers quickly latched

Istio Motivations with Louis Ryan
 Podcast Tuesday, January 9 2018
A single user request hits Google’s servers. A user is looking for search results. In order to deliver those search results, that request will have to hit several different internal

Kubernetes on AWS with Arun Gupta
 Podcast Wednesday, January 10 2018
Since Kubernetes came out, engineers have been deploying clusters to Amazon. In the early years of Kubernetes, deploying to AWS meant that you had to manage the availability of the

High Volume Distributed Tracing with Ben Sigelman
 Podcast Thursday, January 11 2018
You are requesting a car from a ridesharing service such as Lyft. Your request hits the Lyft servers and begins trying to get you a car. It takes your geolocation, and passes the

Kubernetes Vision with Brendan Burns
 Podcast Friday, January 12 2018
Kubernetes has become the standard system for deploying and managing clusters of containers. But the vision of the project goes beyond managing containers. The long-term goal is to

The Gravity of Kubernetes
 Podcast Saturday, January 13 2018
Kubernetes has become the standard way of deploying new distributed applications. Most new internet businesses started in the foreseeable future will leverage Kubernetes (whether they

FluentD with Eduardo Silva
 Podcast Monday, January 15 2018
A backend application can have hundreds of services written in different programming frameworks and languages. Across these different languages, log messages are produced in different

Kubernetes Operations with Brian Redbeard
 Podcast Tuesday, January 16 2018
In the last four years, CoreOS has been at the center of enterprise adoption of containers. During that time, Brian Harrington (or “Redbeard”) has seen a lot of deployments. In this

Kubernetes State Management with Niraj Tolia
 Podcast Wednesday, January 17 2018
A common problem in a distributed system: how do you take a snapshot of the global state of that system? Snapshot is difficult because you need to tell every node in the system to

Kubernetes Storage with Bassam Tabbara
 Podcast Thursday, January 18 2018
Modern applications store most of their data on hosted storage solutions. We use hosted block storage to back databases, hosted object storage for objects such as videos, and hosted file

Service Mesh Design with Oliver Gould
 Podcast Friday, January 19 2018
Oliver Gould worked at Twitter from 2010 to 2014. Twitter’s popularity was taking off, and the engineering team was learning how to scale the product. During that time, Twitter adopted

Container Instances with Gabe Monroy
 Podcast Monday, January 22 2018
In 2011, platform-as-a-service was in its early days. It was around that time that Gabe Monroy started a container platform called Deis, with the goal of making an open source

SpeechBoard with Craig Cannon and Ramon Recuero Moreno
 Podcast Tuesday, January 23 2018
Creating a podcast is still too difficult. One of the main barriers to entry is the editing process. After recording a podcast, the podcast producer needs to line up soundwaves in a

Web Security at Cloudflare, Pinterest, and Segment
 Podcast Wednesday, January 24 2018
Last month, Software Engineering Daily had our 4th Meetup at Cloudflare in San Francisco. For this Meetup, the format was short interviews with security specialists from Pinterest,

Serverless Containers with Sean McKenna
 Podcast Thursday, January 25 2018
After two weeks of episodes about Kubernetes, our in-depth coverage of container orchestration is drawing to a close. We have a few more shows on the topic before we move on to covering

Edge Deep Learning with Aran Khanna
 Podcast Friday, January 26 2018
A modern farm has hundreds of sensors to monitor the soil health, and robotic machinery to reap the vegetables. A modern shipping yard has hundreds of computers working together to

Changelog Podcasting at KubeCon with Adam Stacoviak
 Podcast Saturday, January 27 2018
At KubeCon, I had the chance to catch up with Adam Stacoviak of the Changelog, a podcast that was an inspiration for starting Software Engineering Daily. Changelog has long been one of

Deep Learning Hardware with Xin Wang
 Podcast Monday, January 29 2018
Training a deep learning model involves operations over tensors. A tensor is a multi-dimensional array of numbers. For several years, GPUs were used for these linear algebra

Design Principles From Functional Programming with Runar Bjarnason
 Podcast Tuesday, January 30 2018
Functional programming can improve the overall design of an application architecture. Runar Bjarnason has been exploring how writing in a functional style increases modularity and

Developer Stereotypes with Sue Loh
 Podcast Wednesday, January 31 2018
Sue Loh is a software engineer and author of a book with the goal of breaking developer stereotypes. Stereotyping among developers leads to bad outcomes. When incorrect assumptions are

How to Change an Enterprise’s Software and Culture with Zhamak Dehghani
 Podcast Thursday, February 1 2018
On this show, we spend a lot of time talking about CI/CD, data engineering, and microservices. These technologies have only been widely talked about for the last 5-10 years. That means

Chaos Engineering with Kolton Andrus
 Podcast Friday, February 2 2018
The number of ways that applications can fail are numerous. Disks fail all the time. Servers overheat. Network connections get flaky. You assume that you are prepared for such a

Linkedin Resilience with Bhaskaran Devaraj and Xiao Li
 Podcast Monday, February 5 2018
How do you build resilient, failure tested systems? Redundancy, backups, and testing are all important. But there is also an increasing trend towards chaos engineering–the

Serverless at the Edge with Kenton Varda
 Podcast Tuesday, February 6 2018
Over the last decade, computation and storage has moved from on-premise hardware into the cloud data center. Instead of having large servers “on premise,” companies started to

Tether, Ripple, and Blockchain Reporting with Matt Leising
 Podcast Wednesday, February 7 2018
Your friends from college are asking you how to buy Bitcoin. Your mom is emailing you articles about the benefits of decentralized peer-to-peer networks. Your shoe shiner is telling you

Load Testing Mobile Applications with Paulo Costa and Rodrigo Coutinho
 Podcast Thursday, February 8 2018
Applications need to be ready to scale in response to high-load events. With mobile applications, this can be even more important. People rely on mobile applications such as banking,

Google BeyondCorp with Max Saltonstall
 Podcast Friday, February 9 2018
Employees often find themselves needing to do work outside of the office. Depending on the sensitivity of your task, accessing internal systems from a remote location may or may not be

Scaling Box with Jeff Quiesser
 Podcast Monday, February 12 2018
When Box started in 2006, the small engineering team had a lot to learn. Box was one of the earliest cloud storage companies, with a product that allowed companies to securely upload

Box Kubernetes Migration with Sam Ghods
 Podcast Tuesday, February 13 2018
Over 12 years of engineering, Box has developed a complex architecture of services. Whenever a user uploads a file to Box, that upload might cause 5 or 6 different services to react to

Machine Learning Deployments with Kinnary Jangla
 Podcast Wednesday, February 14 2018
Pinterest is a visual feed of ideas, products, clothing, and recipes. Millions of users browse Pinterest to find images and text that are tailored to their interests. Like most

Streaming Architecture with Tugdual Grall
 Podcast Thursday, February 15 2018
At a big enough scale, every software product produces lots of data. Whether you are building an advertising technology company, a social network, or a system for IoT devices, you have

Streaming Analytics with Scott Kidder
 Podcast Friday, February 16 2018
When you go to a website where a video is playing, and your video lags, how does the website know that you are having a bad experience? Problems with video are often not complete

Streaming Architecture with Ted Dunning
 Podcast Monday, February 19 2018
Streaming architecture defines how large volumes of data make their way through an organization. Data is created at a user’s smartphone, or on a sensor inside of a conveyor belt at a

Kafka Design Patterns with Gwen Shapira
 Podcast Tuesday, February 20 2018
Kafka is at the center of modern streaming systems. Kafka serves as a database, a pubsub system, a buffer, and a data recovery tool. It’s an extremely flexible tool, and that

Cloud Foundry Overview with Mike Dalessio
 Podcast Wednesday, February 21 2018
Earlier this year we did several shows about Cloud Foundry, followed by several shows about Kubernetes. Both of these projects allow you to build scalable, multi-node

Serverless Systems with Eduardo Laureano
 Podcast Thursday, February 22 2018
On Software Engineering Daily, we have been covering the “serverless” movement in detail. For people who don’t use serverless functions, it seems like a niche. Serverless functions

Cloud and Edge with Steve Herrod
 Podcast Friday, February 23 2018
Steve Herrod led engineering at VMWare as the company scaled from 30 engineers to 3,000 engineers. After 11 years, he left to become a managing director for General Catalyst, a venture

Spark and Streaming with Matei Zaharia
 Podcast Monday, February 26 2018
Apache Spark is a system for processing large data sets in parallel. The core abstraction of Spark is the resilient distributed dataset (RDD), a working set of data that sits in memory

Scale Self-Driving with Alexandr Wang
 Podcast Tuesday, February 27 2018
The easiest way to train a computer to recognize a picture of cat is to show the computer a million labeled images of cats. The easiest way to train a computer to recognize a stop sign

Bitcoin Transactions with Daniel Van Flymen
 Podcast Wednesday, February 28 2018
Bitcoin is an immutable, append-only blockchain ledger that reaches consensus through proof-of-work. The contents of the ledger are financial transactions–people sending and

Blockchain Scalability with Peter Ullrich
 Podcast Thursday, March 1 2018
There are two factors that limit the rate at which transactions are accepted into the Bitcoin blockchain: block time and block size. Block time defines how often a new block is appended

Dogecoin with Jackson Palmer
 Podcast Friday, March 2 2018
Dogecoin was started in 2013 as a joke. Jackson Palmer forked Bitcoin and created his cryptocurrency as a play off the “doge” meme. The currency became popular as a means of reddit

Smart Agriculture with Mike Prorock
 Podcast Monday, March 5 2018
Farms have lots of data. A corn farmer needs to monitor the chemical composition of soil. A soybean farmer needs to track crop yield. A chicken farmer needs to count the number of eggs

Bitcoin’s Future with Joseph Bonneau
 Podcast Tuesday, March 6 2018
Joseph Bonneau is co-author of Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies, a popular textbook. At NYU, he works as an assistant professor exploring cryptography and security. His YouTube

Smart Contracts with Raine Revere
 Podcast Wednesday, March 7 2018
Smart contracts are programs that run on the Ethereum blockchain. A smart contract developer pays Ether to deploy the contract. When a contract is deployed, every full node on the

How Aragon Manages DAOs with Luis Cuende
 Podcast Thursday, March 8 2018
Humans organize into groups. There are lots of group types: religions, corporations, national governments, state governments, citizenries, clubs, musical bands. Every group has

Proof of Stake with Subhan Nadeem
 Podcast Friday, March 9 2018
For a decade, Bitcoin’s proof-of-work system has run without disruption. In a proof-of-work scheme, Bitcoin miners compete to solve a cryptographic puzzle associated with a block of

Monopolies and Proof of Stake with Karl Floersh
 Podcast Monday, March 12 2018
Decentralized applications might someday offer alternatives to modern monopolies. Uber, Airbnb, Facebook, Amazon—all of these services could be recreated on a decentralized stack of

Metamask with Dan Finlay
 Podcast Tuesday, March 13 2018
Decentralized applications can be built on the Ethereum blockchain. Just as the Bitcoin blockchain is a distributed, append-only ledger of financial transaction history, Ethereum is a

Web3 with Fabian Vogelsteller
 Podcast Wednesday, March 14 2018
Most applications today run on a cloud provider like AWS. They are built with a framework like Ruby on Rails. They use a set of APIs like Stripe and Twilio for middleware services. This

Crypto Bloomberg with Valentin Mihov
 Podcast Thursday, March 15 2018
In the finance industry, many people have a computer on their desk called a Bloomberg terminal. A Bloomberg terminal contains news, stock prices, communication tools, and other features

Crypto Pump and Dumps with Bruno Skvorc
 Podcast Friday, March 16 2018
Cryptocurrency speculation has pulled in a large population of people who do not know what they are investing in. If you hear about an investment of $1000 turning into $1M, it’s

ShapeShift Operations with Jon ShapeShift
 Podcast Monday, March 19 2018
A financial exchange is an operationally intensive business. You have customers making a high volume of transactions, your service has to be low latency and highly available, and you are

The Business of Decentralization with Anthony Diiorio
 Podcast Tuesday, March 20 2018
Anthony Diiorio was involved with Ethereum since the earliest days. He was one of the first people to see the Ethereum ideas presented by Vitalik Buterin, and he invested deeply in

Status.im: Ethereum Mobile Browser with Jarrad Hope and Oskar Thoren
 Podcast Wednesday, March 21 2018
To use a web application, you probably open a web browser or a mobile app. To access an Ethereum application, many people use an Ethereum browser. In previous episodes, we explored

Streamr: Data Streaming Marketplace with Henri Pihkala
 Podcast Thursday, March 22 2018
Data streams about the weather can be used to predict how soybean futures are going to change in price. Satellite data streams can take pictures of the number of cars on the road, and

DAO Reflections and Slock.it with Christoph Jentzsch
 Podcast Friday, March 23 2018
The DAO was a system of smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain that investors put millions of dollars into. Back in May 2016, it was the largest crowdfunding event in history, and we

Consensus Systems with Ethan Buchman
 Podcast Monday, March 26 2018
Consensus protocols are used to allow computers to work together. A consensus protocol lets different servers agree on the state of a system. For decades, these protocols have been used

Cryptocurrency Networking with Soumya Basu
 Podcast Tuesday, March 27 2018
Soumya Basu is a PhD student at Cornell, where he studies distributed systems problems associated with cryptocurrencies. Soumya is advised by Emin Gun Sirer, a Cornell professor who

Plasma: Smart Contract Scalability with Christian Reitwiessner
 Podcast Wednesday, March 28 2018
Ethereum is a system for running decentralized smart contracts. In the current implementation of Ethereum, every smart contract gets deployed to every full node. Whenever a user wants to

Enterprise Smart Contracts with Marley Gray
 Podcast Thursday, March 29 2018
We sign many different types of contracts throughout our lives. We sign a mortgage to get a loan for a house. When we go to the hospital, we sign a piece of paper that defines how our

ShapeShift with Erik Voorhees
 Podcast Friday, March 30 2018
“The Federal Reserve System is fraudulent. Whatever its stated purpose, its effective purpose is to create a mechanism of deficit spending by politicians, through the insidious

Zcash Design with Sean Bowe
 Podcast Monday, April 2 2018
Zcash is a payment and consensus system that allows users to transfer money to each other with strong guarantees of privacy. Zcash implements the same core features of Bitcoin, with the

Gitcoin: Open Source Bounties with Kevin Owocki
 Podcast Tuesday, April 3 2018
Most technology companies rely on open source software projects. But open source software projects are often maintained by a group of people that is not affiliated with any particular

PubSub Infrastructure with Stephen Blum
 Podcast Wednesday, April 4 2018
The pubsub pattern allows a developer to create channels, which messages can be written to and read from. Pubsub messaging is useful for multicast messaging–when you want to

Ethereum Governance with Hudson Jameson
 Podcast Thursday, April 5 2018
The Ethereum community started as a small group of dedicated engineers. It has ballooned to thousands of engineers, entrepreneurs and investors, all of whom have a stake in the direction

IPFS Design with David Dias
 Podcast Friday, April 6 2018
The Interplanetary File System (IPFS) is a decentralized global, peer-to-peer file system. IPFS combines ideas from BitTorrent, Git, and Bitcoin, creating a new way to store and access

Site Reliability Management with Mike Hiraga
 Podcast Monday, April 9 2018
Software engineers have interacted with operations teams since software was being written. In the 1990s, most operations teams worked with physical infrastructure. They made sure that

Database Chaos with Tammy Butow
 Podcast Tuesday, April 10 2018
Tammy Butow has worked at Digital Ocean and Dropbox, where she built out infrastructure and managed engineering teams. At both of these companies, the customer base was at a massive

Go Systems with Erik St. Martin
 Podcast Wednesday, April 11 2018
Go is a language designed to improve systems programming. Go includes abstractions that simplify aspects of low level engineering that are historically difficult—concurrency, resource

Mastodon: Federated Social Network with Eugen Rochko
 Podcast Thursday, April 12 2018
Social networks can make you feel connected to a global society. But those social networks are controlled by a corporate entity. The profit motivations of the corporation are not

Unchained with Laura Shin
 Podcast Friday, April 13 2018
Laura Shin is the host of Unchained, a podcast about cryptocurrencies and decentralized technology. For every episode, Laura does significant research and preparation, so the content

Monitoring Kubernetes with Ilan Rabinovitch
 Podcast Monday, April 16 2018
Monitoring a Kubernetes cluster allows operators to track the resource utilization of the containers within that cluster. In today’s episode, Ilan Rabinovitch joins the show to explore

Talking Bitcoin with Adam B. Levine
 Podcast Tuesday, April 17 2018
Let’s Talk Bitcoin is one of the most popular podcasts about cryptocurrencies. Adam B. Levine started it after three other podcasts he started did not get the traction he had hoped

SafeGraph with Auren Hoffman
 Podcast Wednesday, April 18 2018
Machine learning tools are rapidly maturing. TensorFlow gave developers an open source version of Google’s internal machine learning framework. Cloud computing provides a cost

React Stack with G2i Team
 Podcast Thursday, April 19 2018
Most new frontend webapps today use ReactJS. An increasing number of mobile apps are created using the cross-platform components of React Native. GraphQL, Facebook’s open source

Bitcoin Debates with Roger Ver
 Podcast Friday, April 20 2018
Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash are two cryptocurrencies with similar properties. But the supporters of each of these Bitcoin versions have strongly divergent opinions on the direction of the

Stripe Observability Pipeline with Cory Watson
 Podcast Monday, April 23 2018
Stripe processes payments for thousands of businesses. A single payment could involve 10 different networked services. If a payment fails, engineers need to be able to diagnose what

NATS Messaging with Derek Collison
 Podcast Tuesday, April 24 2018
A message broker is an architectural component that sends messages between different nodes in a distributed system. Message brokers are useful because the sender of a message does not

Siftery Engineering with Ayan Barua
 Podcast Wednesday, April 25 2018
There are hundreds of different databases. There are tens of continuous delivery products. There is an ocean of cloud providers and CRM systems and monitoring platforms and sales

TensorFlow Applications with Rajat Monga
 Podcast Thursday, April 26 2018
Rajat Monga is a director of engineering at Google where he works on TensorFlow. TensorFlow is a framework for numerical computation developed at Google. The majority of TensorFlow users

Google Cluster Evolution with Brian Grant
 Podcast Friday, April 27 2018
Google’s central system for managing compute resources is called Borg. On Borg, millions of Linux containers process a wide variety of workloads. When a new application is spun up,

Keybase Architecture / Clarifai Infrastructure Meetup Talks
 Podcast Saturday, April 28 2018
Keybase is a platform for managing public key infrastructure. Keybase’s products simplify the complicated process of associating your identity with a public key. Keybase is the subject

Epicenter Cryptocurrencies with Brian Fabian Crain
 Podcast Monday, April 30 2018
Podcasting about cryptocurrencies is a strange occupation. You get emails all the time from companies doing a token sale that you would never want to be affiliated with. You get angry

Technology Utopia with Michael Solana
 Podcast Tuesday, May 1 2018
Technology is pushing us rapidly toward a future that is impossible to forecast. We try to imagine what that future might look like, and we can’t help having our predictions shaped by

Building Datadog with Alexis Le-Quoc
 Podcast Wednesday, May 2 2018
Alexis Le-Quoc started Datadog in 2010, after living through the Internet boom and bust cycle of the late 90s and early 2000s. In 2010, cloud was just starting to become popular. There

WannaCry’s Gray Hat with Reeves Wiedeman
 Podcast Thursday, May 3 2018
Last year, the WannaCry ransomware attack shut down hospitals, public transportation systems, and governments, demanding payment to unlock key computer systems. A programmer named Marcus

Spark Geospatial Analytics with Ram Sriharsha
 Podcast Friday, May 4 2018
Phones are constantly tracking the location of a user in space. Devices like cars, smart watches, and drones are also picking up high volumes of location data. This location data is also

Superpedestrian Robotic Wheel / Infrastructure at HubSpot Meetup Talks
 Podcast Saturday, May 5 2018
Superpedestrian is a robotic bicycle wheel that learns how you pedal and personalizes your bicycle ride. The engineering challenges of Superpedestrian are at the intersection of

Affirm Engineering with Libor Michalek
 Podcast Monday, May 7 2018
When I buy a mattress online, I pay for it with my credit card. Behind the scenes, a complex series of transactions occur between a payment gateway, the credit card company, and a few

Stripe Atlas with Patrick McKenzie
 Podcast Tuesday, May 8 2018
Starting an Internet business is harder than it should be. You need to incorporate, create an operating agreement, set up a system to accept payments, and many other straightforward

Data Engineering Podcast with Tobias Macey
 Podcast Wednesday, May 9 2018
Cloud computing lowered the cost and improved accessibility to tools for storing large volumes of data. In the early 2000s, Hadoop caused a revolution in large scale batch processing.

Deep Learning Topologies with Yinyin Liu
 Podcast Thursday, May 10 2018
Algorithms for building neural networks have existed for decades. For a long time, neural networks were not widely used. Recent changes to the cost of compute and the size of our data

Cluster Schedulers with Ben Hindman
 Podcast Friday, May 11 2018
Mesos is a system for managing distributed systems. The goal of Mesos is to help engineers orchestrate resources among multi-node applications like Spark. Mesos can also manage lower

Cloud Native Computing Foundation with Chris Aniszczyk and Dan Kohn
 Podcast Monday, May 14 2018
The Kubernetes ecosystem consists of enterprises, vendors, open source projects, and individual engineers. The Cloud Native Computing Foundation was created to balance the interests of

Vitess: Scaling MySQL with Sugu Sougoumarane
 Podcast Tuesday, May 15 2018
YouTube runs a large MySQL database to hold the metadata about its videos. As YouTube scaled, the database was sharded, and applications within YouTube had to write queries that were

Gloo: Function Gateway with Idit Levine
 Podcast Wednesday, May 16 2018
Gloo is a function gateway built on top of the popular open source project Envoy. The goal of Gloo is to decouple client-facing APIs from upstream APIs. Gloo is similar to an API

Pulsar Messaging with Lewis Kaneshiro
 Podcast Thursday, May 17 2018
Message broker systems decouple the consumers and producers of a message channel. In previous shows, we have explored ZeroMQ, PubNub, Apache Kafka, and NATS. In this episode, we talk

Alexa Voice Design with Paul Cutsinger
 Podcast Friday, May 18 2018
Voice interfaces are a newer form of communicating with computers. Alexa is a voice interface platform from Amazon. Alexa powers the Amazon Echo, as well as Alexa-enabled cars,

Machine Learning with Data Skeptic and Second Spectrum at Telesign
 Podcast Saturday, May 19 2018
Data Skeptic is a podcast about machine learning, data science, and how software affects our lives. The first guest on today’s episode is Kyle Polich, the host of Data Skeptic. Kyle is

Voice with Rita Singh
 Podcast Monday, May 21 2018
A sample of the human voice is a rich piece of unstructured data. Voice recordings can be turned into visualizations called spectrograms. Machine learning models can be trained to

Container Security with Maya Kaczorowski
 Podcast Tuesday, May 22 2018
Deploying software to a container presents a different security model than deploying an application to a VM. There is a smaller attack surface per container, but the container is

Software Law: GDPR, Patents, and Antitrust with Micah Kesselman
 Podcast Wednesday, May 23 2018
The world of software moves faster than the laws that regulate it. When software companies do get regulated, that regulation is often enforced unevenly among different companies.

Uber’s Data Platform with Zhenxiao Luo
 Podcast Thursday, May 24 2018
When a user takes a ride on Uber, the app on the user’s phone is communicating with Uber’s backend infrastructure, which is writing to a database that maintains the state of that

Autonomy with Frank Chen
 Podcast Friday, May 25 2018
Self-driving, electric cars will someday outnumber traditional automobiles on the road. As transportation becomes autonomous, it is hard to imagine an industry that will not be affected

Pi Hole: Ad Blocker Hardware with Jacob Salmela
 Podcast Tuesday, May 29 2018
Ad blockers in the browser protect us from the most annoying marketing messages that the Internet tries to serve to us. But we still pay a price for these ads. We pay the bandwidth costs

Container Native Development with Ralph Squillace
 Podcast Wednesday, May 30 2018
Containers have improved deployments and resource utilization. Kubernetes created a platform to manage those containers and orchestrate them into distributed applications. In today’s

Life Science R&D with Sherwin Yu
 Podcast Thursday, May 31 2018
Ten years ago, a biology researcher was limited by the software tools available. Most of the electronic record keeping was done using Excel and other general purpose tools. Benchling is

Scaling Ethereum with Raul Jordan and Preston Van Loon
 Podcast Friday, June 1 2018
Cryptocurrency infrastructure is a new form of software. Thousands of developers are submitting transactions to Bitcoin and Ethereum, and this transaction volume tests the scalability of

OpenAI: Compute and Safety with Dario Amodei
 Podcast Monday, June 4 2018
Applications of artificial intelligence are permeating our everyday lives. We notice it in small ways–improvements to speech recognition; better quality products being recommended

Profilers with Julia Evans
 Podcast Tuesday, June 5 2018
When software is performing suboptimally, the programmer can use a variety of tools to diagnose problems and improve the quality of the code. A profiler is a tool for examining where a

Container Storage with Jie Yu
 Podcast Wednesday, June 6 2018
A database stores data to an underlying section of storage. If you are an application developer, you might think of your persistent storage system as being the database itself–but

AWS Lambda Cold Starts Explained
 Article Wednesday, June 6 2018
Originally posted on theburningmonk.com @theburningmonk When I discuss AWS Lambda cold starts with folks in the context of API Gateway, I often get responses along the line of: Meh,

Future of Computing with John Hennessy
 Podcast Thursday, June 7 2018
Moore’s Law states that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles about every two years. Moore’s Law is less like a “law” and more like an observation or a

GDPR: Behind the Curtains of “We Updated Our Privacy Policy” Email Floods
 Article 
You must have noticed the barrage of emails announcing the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) going into effect on May 25, 2018. Six years in the making, the General Data

Investment Games with Brian Singerman
 Podcast Friday, June 8 2018
Investing is an infinite game. In a game, a player can formulate a strategy based on the available resources, the apparent variance of the environment, and the metagame of the other

Meet Apache Kafka
 Article 
Kafka has become a central tool for data at many large organizations. At data-intensive companies like Fiverr and Netflix, Kafka is used simultaneously as: a database a queue for ordered

Bitcoin Lightning Network with Jameson Lopp
 Podcast Monday, June 11 2018
Big blocks or small blocks: this is the fundamental question of Bitcoin scalability. The argument for big blocks is also known as “on-chain scalability.” Under this strategy, each

Necto: Build an ISP with Adam Montgomery
 Podcast Tuesday, June 12 2018
In the tech industry, we have all grown to fear “lock-in.” Lock-in is a situation in which you have no choice but to pay a certain provider for some aspect of your computer services.

Postgres Sharding and Scalability with Marco Slot
 Podcast Wednesday, June 13 2018
Relational databases have been popular since the 1970s, but in the last 20 years the amount of data that applications need to collect and store has skyrocketed. The raw cost to store

Hacking Your Short-Term Rental with Jeremy Galloway
 Podcast Thursday, June 14 2018
If you have ever stayed in a short-term rental (like an Airbnb, HomeAway, or CouchSurfing), you have probably used the wifi network at that rental property. Why wouldn’t you? It’s no

Digital Evolution with Joel Lehman, Dusan Misevic, and Jeff Clune
 Podcast Friday, June 15 2018
Evolutionary algorithms can generate surprising, effective solutions to our problems. Evolutionary algorithms are often let loose within a simulated environment. The algorithm is given a

Dremio Data Engineering with Tomer Shiran
 Podcast Monday, June 18 2018
Twenty years ago, all of the data in an organization could fit inside of relational databases. Imagine a company like Proctor and Gamble. P&G is a consumer packaged goods company

Rust Networking with Carl Lerche
 Podcast Tuesday, June 19 2018
Rust is a systems programming language with a distinct set of features for safety and concurrency. In previous shows about Rust, we explored how Rust can prevent crashes and eliminate

GraphQL: Designing APIs for the Internet of Everything
 Article 
GraphQL is not just changing the way we think about APIs, but transforming how we build applications for the modern internet. GraphQL was conceived when Facebook was rebuilding their

Database Reliability Engineering with Laine Campbell
 Podcast Wednesday, June 20 2018
Over the last decade, cloud computing made it easier to programmatically define what infrastructure we have running, and perform operations across that infrastructure. This is called

Babel with Henry Zhu
 Podcast Thursday, June 21 2018
Different browsers consume JavaScript in different ways. When a new version of JavaScript comes out, developers are eager to use the new functionality of that language version. But if

Video Search with Rasty Turek
 Podcast Friday, June 22 2018
Searching through all of the videos on the Internet is not a simple problem. In order to search through all the videos, you need to build a search index. In order to build a search

Browser Building with Osine Ikhianosime
 Podcast Saturday, June 23 2018
Crocodile Browser is a fast browser built by Osine and Anesi Ikhianosime, a pair of brothers from Nigeria. I interviewed them 3 years ago, and in this episode I caught up with Osine to

Build a Bank: Monzo with Richard Dingwall
 Podcast Monday, June 25 2018
When you interact with your bank, it probably feels different than when you interact with a software technology company. That’s because the biggest banks in the world were started

Function Platforms with Chad Arimura and Matt Stephenson
 Podcast Tuesday, June 26 2018
“Serverless” is a word used to describe functions that get deployed and run without the developer having to manage the infrastructure explicitly. Instead of creating a server,

Shopify Infrastructure with Niko Kurtti
 Podcast Wednesday, June 27 2018
Shopify runs more than 600,000 small business websites. When Shopify was figuring out how to scale, the engineering teams did not have a standard workflow for how to deploy and manage

Chrome and Chromium with David Bokan
 Podcast Thursday, June 28 2018
Chromium is an open source browser that shares code with the Chrome browser from Google. A browser is a large piece of software, with engineering challenges around threading, rendering,

Data Engineering Automation with Mike Kim
 Podcast Friday, June 29 2018
Every company has the idea of the “nightly report.” A business analyst comes into the office, sits down in front their inbox, and looks at yesterday’s data. Did sales go up? Did

How to get started in VR with A-Frame
 Article 
Reality-altering platforms create new challenges for user interface designers. Devices such as the Oculus Rift and Google Daydream represent the next major evolution in interface
A-Frame logo
Kademlia: P2P Distributed Hash Table with Petar Maymounkov
 Podcast Monday, July 2 2018
Napster, Kazaa, and Bittorrent are peer-to-peer file sharing systems. In these P2P systems, nodes need to find each other. Users need to be able to search for files that exist across the

Fintech Environment with Michael Walsh
 Podcast Tuesday, July 3 2018
Computer systems consume memory, CPU, battery, data, and network bandwidth as inputs. These systems provide value for the end user by delivering information, virtual objects, and

Machine Learning Stroke Identification with David Golan
 Podcast Thursday, July 5 2018
When a patient comes into the hospital with stroke symptoms, the hospital will give that patient a CAT scan, a 3-dimensional imaging of the patient’s brain. The CAT scan needs to be

Future Projection with Tim O’Reilly
 Podcast Friday, July 6 2018
Tim O’Reilly’s book What’s the Future? is an overview of business, technology, and society. As the founder of O’Reilly Media, Tim has been steeped in technology trends for the

Flutter with Eric Seidel
 Podcast Monday, July 9 2018
Flutter is a project from Google that is rebuilding user interface engineering from the ground up. Today, most engineering teams have dedicated engineering resources for web, iOS, and

Build a Bank: Nubank with Edward Wible
 Podcast Tuesday, July 10 2018
Nubank was started in 2013 with a credit card that was controlled through a mobile app. At the time, it was the first service in Brazil that allowed customers to do banking without going

Flutter in Practice with Randal Schwartz
 Podcast Wednesday, July 11 2018
Flutter allows developers to build cross-platform mobile apps. In our previous show about Flutter, Eric Seidel from Google described the goals of Flutter, why he founded the project, and

Can’t get engineering interviews? Try the side door.
 Article Wednesday, July 11 2018
If you’re applying for new engineering jobs and are struggling to get your foot in the door, consider looking for other ways in. Imagine a big crowd of people in front of a

Ballerina Language with Tyler Jewell
 Podcast Thursday, July 12 2018
Modern programming requires lots of integration between APIs. Some of these integrations are trivial–such as using Twilio or Stripe. But there are many more complex integrations.

Machine Learning Deployments with Diego Oppenheimer
 Podcast Friday, July 13 2018
Machine learning models allow our applications to perform highly accurate inferences. A model can be used to classify a picture as a cat, or to predict what movie I might want to watch.

Counting People with Andrew Farah
 Podcast Monday, July 16 2018
If you operate a restaurant, you want to know how many people are inside your restaurant at any given time. You also want to be able to know your occupancy if you operate a movie

Git Vulnerability with Edward Thomson
 Podcast Tuesday, July 17 2018
Git is a distributed file system for version control. Git is extremely reliable, fast, and secure, owing to the fact that it is one of the oldest pieces of open source software. But even

Build a Bank: N26 with Pat Kua
 Podcast Wednesday, July 18 2018
Banking has been a part of the economy for 600 years. Banking has always been evolving. The most recent evolution: the financial industry has been going digital. Newer “fintech”

An Overview of Jupyter Notebooks
 Article 
Data is an important part of today’s software engineering ecosystem. The data that is collected by an individual or a company is not worth much unless it can be shared, distributed,

Botchain with Rob May
 Podcast Thursday, July 19 2018
“Bots” are becoming increasingly relevant to our everyday interactions with technology. A bot sometimes mediates the interactions of two people. Examples of bots include automated

WebAssembly with Lin Clark
 Podcast Friday, July 20 2018
JavaScript has been the exclusive language of the web browser for the last 20 years. Whether you use Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, or Safari, your browser interprets and executes

Kubernetes in the Enterprise with Aparna Sinha
 Podcast Monday, July 23 2018
Enterprises want to update their technology faster. One way an enterprise can accelerate the adoption of new tools is to move more aggressively towards the cloud. By giving internal

Video Machine Learning with Ben Dodson
 Podcast Tuesday, July 24 2018
Video streaming platforms like Netflix offer a convenient way to watch video content. We are now able to watch our favorite TV shows, movies, or content creators on a range of devices.

Video Games and Funding Techniques with Howard Marks
 Podcast Wednesday, July 25 2018
Howard Marks ran two video game companies in the 90’s: Activision and Acclaim. While running these companies, he developed a love for entrepreneurship that he maintains today. Howard

Ghost: Open Source Publishing Platform with John O’Nolan
 Podcast Thursday, July 26 2018
Blogging is more than 20 years old. Over that period of time, numerous publishing platforms have been created. Squarespace, Blogger, Medium, and Twitter are popular closed source

Crash Reporting: Improving the Customer and Dev Experience
 Article 
When things go badly, everyone needs a plan.  When things break in a production system, a solid strategy is necessary for recovery and minimizing impact. When an alert goes off in a

React Native at Airbnb with Gabriel Peal
 Podcast Friday, July 27 2018
React Native allows developers to reuse frontend code between mobile platforms. A user interface component written in React Native can be used in both iOS and Android codebases. Since

Edge Kubernetes with Venkat Yalla
 Podcast Monday, July 30 2018
“Edge computing” is a term used to define computation that takes place in an environment outside of a data center. Edge computing is a broad term. Your smartphone is an edge device.

Jailbreaking Apple Watch with Max Bazaliy
 Podcast Tuesday, July 31 2018
Apple operating systems are closed source. This closed source nature gives Apple an extremely successful business model–and a very different software developer ecosystem than

Castor EDC with Derk Arts
 Podcast Wednesday, August 1 2018
Medical breakthroughs require medical research. Medical research requires patient testing and data collection. The most common form of capturing patient data is through surveys–and

Token Types with Felipe Pereira
 Podcast Thursday, August 2 2018
A token is a unit of virtual currency. Most tokens are built on a blockchain-based cryptocurrency platform, such as Ethereum. Building on top of a platform like Ethereum allows these

GraalVM with Thomas Wuerthinger
 Podcast Friday, August 3 2018
Java programs compile into Java bytecode. Java bytecode executes in the Java Virtual Machine, a runtime environment that compiles that bytecode further into machine code, and optimizes

Splice: Music Collaboration with Matt Aimonetti
 Podcast Monday, August 6 2018
Music collaboration has historically been accomplished by musicians gathering in bands. A band is usually an in-person, physical manifestation: a drummer, a guitarist, a piano player.

Future Architecture with Chad Fowler
 Podcast Tuesday, August 7 2018
Chad Fowler was the CTO of Wunderlist prior to its acquisition by Microsoft. Since the acquisition, Chad has become the general manager of developer advocacy at Microsoft. He also works

Self-Driving Engineering with George Hotz
 Podcast Wednesday, August 8 2018
In the smartphone market there are two dominant operating systems: one closed source (iPhone) and one open source (Android). The market for self-driving cars could play out the same way,

Stripe Engineering with Raylene Yung
 Podcast Thursday, August 9 2018
Stripe is a payments API that allows merchants to transact online. Since the creation of the payments API, Stripe has expanded into adjacent services such as fraud detection, business

Klarna Engineering with Marcus Granström
 Podcast Friday, August 10 2018
Klarna is a payments company headquartered in Sweden. Since being established in 2005 it has grown to handling $21 billion in online sales in 2017. Roughly 40% of all e-commerce sales in

GitOps: Kubernetes Continuous Delivery with Alexis Richardson
 Podcast Monday, August 13 2018
Continuous delivery is a way of releasing software without requiring software engineers to synchronize during a release.  Over the last decade, continuous delivery workflows have

Infrastructure Monitoring with Mark Carter
 Podcast Tuesday, August 14 2018
At Google, the job of a site reliability engineer involves building tools to automate infrastructure operations. If a server crashes, there is automation in place to create a new server.

Casa: Crypto Wallet Security with Jameson Lopp
 Podcast Wednesday, August 15 2018
Cryptocurrency security is a concern to anyone who has a significant amount of money in the form of Bitcoin, Ethereum, or other crypto assets. Most Bitcoin is held in either a Bitcoin

DoorDash Engineering with Raghav Ramesh
 Podcast Thursday, August 16 2018
DoorDash is a last mile logistics company that connects customers with their favorite national and local businesses. When a customer orders from a restaurant, DoorDash needs to identify

WebAssembly Future with Steve Klabnik
 Podcast Friday, August 17 2018
WebAssembly is a low-level compilation target for any programming language that can be interpreted into WebAssembly. Alternatively, WebAssembly is a way to run languages other than

WebAssembly Engineering with Ben Smith and Thomas Nattestad
 Podcast Monday, August 20 2018
WebAssembly allows developers to run any language in a sandboxed, memory controlled module that can be called via well-defined semantics. As we have discussed in recent episodes with Lin

OLIO: Food Sharing with Lloyd Watkin
 Podcast Tuesday, August 21 2018
Food gets thrown away from restaurants, homes, catering companies, and any other place with a kitchen. Most of this food gets thrown away when it is still edible, and could provide

Stitch Fix Engineering with Cathy Polinsky
 Podcast Thursday, August 23 2018
Stitch Fix is a company that recommends packages of clothing based on a set of preferences that the user defines and updates over time. Stitch Fix’s software platform includes the

Build Faster with Nader Dabit
 Podcast Friday, August 24 2018
Building software today is much faster than it was just a few years ago. The tools are higher level, and abstract away tasks that would have required months of development. Much of a

Helm with Michelle Noorali
 Podcast Monday, August 27 2018
Back in 2014, platform-as-a-service was becoming an increasingly popular idea. The idea of PaaS was to sit on top of infrastructure-as-a-service providers like Azure, AWS, or Google

Android Slices with Jason Monk
 Podcast Tuesday, August 28 2018
The main user interfaces today are the smartphone, the laptop, and the desktop computer. Some people today interact with voice interfaces, augmented reality, virtual reality, and

DataOps with Christopher Bergh
 Podcast Wednesday, August 29 2018
Every company with a large set of customers has a large set of data–whether that company is 5 years old or 50 years old. That data is valuable whether you are an insurance company,

Kubernetes Impact with Clayton Coleman
 Podcast Thursday, August 30 2018
Kubernetes is in production clusters around the world with hundreds of thousands of containers. Kubernetes provides a distributed systems management environment for small startups and

Strategies for Interviewing and Hiring: Part 1 of 2
 Article 
“Humans are the most complicated thing out there – judging human skill is extremely hard, there’s all kinds of ways that people can be good.” There are some big unanswered

RideOS: Fleet Management with Rohan Paranjpe
 Podcast Friday, August 31 2018
Self-driving transportation will be widely deployed at some point in the future. How far off is that future? There are widely varying estimations: maybe you will summon a self-driving

Monolith Migration with Jan Schiffman and Sherman Wood
 Podcast Tuesday, September 4 2018
TIBCO was started in the 90’s with a popular message bus product that was widely used by finance companies, logistics providers, and other systems with high throughput. As TIBCO grew

Faust: Streaming at Robinhood with Ask Solem
 Podcast Wednesday, September 5 2018
Robinhood is a platform for buying and selling stocks, cryptocurrencies, and other assets. Since its founding in 2013, Robinhood has grown to have more than 5 million user accounts,

Strategies for Interviewing and Hiring: Part 2 of 2
 Article 
CULTURE FIT, OR: TECHNICAL SKILLS MATTER, SOFT SKILLS ALSO MATTER “Culture fit” is a term that is used to describe engineers that have the right personality for a given company. In

Music Engineering with Dom Kane
 Podcast Thursday, September 6 2018
For most of history, a typical musician would learn to play one specific instrument. As synthesizers became available to the public, it became commonplace for a musician to create their

Go To Market with Mitch Ferguson
 Podcast Friday, September 7 2018
Engineers need to have an awareness of the business model that allows their company to succeed. When a software company is going to market, the engineers need to work closely with the

Kubernetes Continuous Deployment with Sheroy Marker
 Podcast Monday, September 10 2018
Engineering organizations can operate more efficiently by working with a continuous integration and continuous deployment workflow. Continuous integration is the process of automatically

Real Estate Machine Learning with Or Hiltch
 Podcast Tuesday, September 11 2018
Stock traders have access to high volumes of information to help them make decisions on whether to buy an asset. A trader who is considering buying a share of Google stock can find

Netflix Observability with Kevin Lew
 Podcast Wednesday, September 12 2018
Netflix users stream terabytes of data from the cloud to their devices every day. During a high bandwidth, long-lived connection, a lot can go wrong. Networks can drop packets, machines

Orchestrating Kubernetes with Chris Gaun
 Podcast Thursday, September 13 2018
A company runs a variety of distributed systems applications such as Hadoop for batch processing jobs, Spark for data science, and Kubernetes for container management. These distributed

Druid Analytical Database with Fangjin Yang
 Podcast Friday, September 14 2018
Modern applications produce large numbers of events. These events can be users clicking, IoT sensors accumulating data, or log messages. The cost of cloud storage and compute continues

Edge Computing and the Future of the Cloud
 Article Friday, September 14 2018
“Edge” and “fog” are the new buzzwords we keep hearing about. What is edge computing, and what applications does it have? Well, to talk about these, we have to understand how it

DEV Community with Ben Halpern
 Podcast Monday, September 17 2018
The DEV Community is a platform where developers share ideas, programming advice, and tools. Ben Halpern started it after running an extremely successful Twitter account creating

Continuous Delivery Pipelines with Abel Wang
 Podcast Tuesday, September 18 2018
Continuous integration and delivery allows teams to move faster by allowing developers to ship code independently of each other. A multi-stage CD pipeline might consist of development,

Kubernetes Distributions with Brian Gracely and Michael Hausenblas
 Podcast Wednesday, September 19 2018
Kubernetes is an open source container management system. Kubernetes is sometimes described as “the Linux of distributed systems” and this description makes sense: the large numbers

Android on Chrome with Shahid Hussain and Stefan Kuhne
 Podcast Thursday, September 20 2018
Google has two consumer operating systems: Android and Chrome. The Android operating system has been widely deployed on mobile devices. Chrome is an operating system for laptops and

Checkr: Background Check Platform with Tomas Barreto
 Podcast Friday, September 21 2018
Background checks are a routine part of the hiring process. After a potential employee has made it through job interviews, a background check is administered to look through the

Front Engineering with Laurent Perrin
 Podcast Monday, September 24 2018
Front is a shared inbox application that has seen rapid adoption within companies. Front allows multiple members of a company to collaborate together on a conversation–whether that

Why Airbnb is Moving Off Of React Native
 Article 
For the last two years, Airbnb has been using React Native to accelerate development of their mobile platforms. React Native is an open source framework developed by Facebook that allows

Unity and WebAssembly with Brett Bibby
 Podcast Tuesday, September 25 2018
Unity is a game engine for building 2-D and 3-D experiences, augmented reality, movies, and other applications. Unity is cross-platform, so that applications can be written once and

Tim O’Reilly on the Future
 Article 
Tim O’Reilly has been a pillar of the tech industry for decades now. As the founder of O’Reilly Media, his company has ingrained itself in tech culture through their extensive series

JavaScript Engines with Mathias Bynens
 Podcast Wednesday, September 26 2018
JavaScript performance has improved over time due to advances in JavaScript engines such as Google’s V8. A JavaScript engine performs compiler optimization, garbage collection, hot

Container Storage Interface and Its Relationship to the CNCF Cloud Native Landscape
 Article 
The Container Storage Interface (CSI) Specification is the result of a Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) project that aims to define an industry standard “container storage

Android Things with Wayne Piekarski
 Podcast Thursday, September 27 2018
Internet of Things is a concept that describes lots of devices that you interact with regularly being connected to the Internet and networked together. Technologists have been dreaming

WebAssembly and the Future of Browser Languages
 Article 
If you are interested in technology even a bit, you may hear the name JavaScript, the core technology used in the World Wide Web. However, it comes with several major performance issues.

Prisma: GraphQL Infrastructure with Soren Bramer Schmidt
 Podcast Friday, September 28 2018
GraphQL allows developers to communicate with all of their different data backends through a consistent query interface. A GraphQL query can be translated into queries to MySQL, MongoDB,

Inside DoorDash: Machine Learning and Logistics
 Article Friday, September 28 2018
DoorDash is a company that connects customers to their favorite restaurants. By using the app or desktop site users can order food from a local restaurant. Then drivers for DoorDash will

Continuous Integration in Open Source with Oren Novotny
 Podcast Monday, October 1 2018
Open source software is key to our software infrastructure. Closed source enterprises rely on open source software, but the development processes for closed source and open source

WebAssembly: A Foundation for a Higher Performance Web
 Article 
As the Internet fills a larger role in our lives, more and more is being asked of web applications. JavaScript cannot always provide the necessary performance, so a new solution is

Kotlin Design with Andrey Breslav
 Podcast Tuesday, October 2 2018
Kotlin is a statically typed programming language that started as a JVM language. It gained popularity because it reduces the amount of boilerplate code required for a typical Java

Shopify Infrastructure Migration
 Article 
Since about 2004 or so, Shopify has been a providing and easy to use platform for e-commerce businesses.  As a scrappy startup, Shopify built a monolith application, Shopify Core. With

Cursor: Data Collaboration with Adam Weinstein
 Podcast Wednesday, October 3 2018
Linkedin is an organization with thousands of employees. An enterprise of that size starts to develop problems with data collaboration. Data collaboration is the process of sharing and

JavaScript and the Inner Workings of your Browser
 Article 
﻿﻿ What happens when a browser loads a page? Do you know how the internals of browsers work to turn the JavaScript code you write into something usable by your computer? What happens

Database Performance and Optimization with Andrew Davidson
 Podcast Thursday, October 4 2018
When a database gets large, it can start to perform poorly. This can manifest in slow query speed. You can speed up a query by defining an index, which is a data structure that allows

Cloud Structures: Kubernetes, Container Instances, Serverless
 Article 
When it comes to cloud services and infrastructure, there are many routes to choose from. You can choose a serverless structure, where FaaS (Function as a Service) providers can perform
Cloud Infrastructure
Scalyr: Column-Oriented Log Management with Steve Newman
 Podcast Friday, October 5 2018
Log messages are fast, high volume, unstructured data. Logs are often the source of metrics, alerts, and dashboards, so these critical systems are downstream from a log management

The State of Autonomous Driving
 Article Friday, October 5 2018
Self-driving cars, sometimes referred to as autonomous vehicles, seem like an inevitability. Companies like Tesla, Waymo, Uber, and even old mainstays like Ford and GM all have various

Monolith Migration with Jan Schiffman and Sherman Wood
 Podcast Saturday, October 6 2018
We previously released this episode with the wrong audio file and are re-releasing it on a weekend. TIBCO was started in the 90’s with a popular message bus product that was widely

Airbnb Engineering with Surabhi Gupta
 Podcast Monday, October 8 2018
Airbnb began in 2008 as a monolithic Rails application serving the simple purpose of listing homes for rental. Over time, the number of listings increased dramatically, as did the number

An Overview of Flutter
 Article 
Origins of Flutter Flutter is a programming framework for building cross platform mobile apps. Its roots trace back to Google Chrome and the efforts of a team dedicated to making the web

Digital Privacy with Aran Khanna
 Podcast Tuesday, October 9 2018
When Aran Khanna was a college student, he accepted an internship to work at Facebook. Even before his internship started, he started playing around with Facebook’s APIs and

The State of Digital Banking
 Article Tuesday, October 9 2018
The biggest banks in the world exist for tens and hundreds of years. They were started well before “software took over the world”. They specialize in banking, and not

Mapillary: Computer Vision Crowdsourcing with Peter Neubauer
 Podcast Wednesday, October 10 2018
Mapillary is a platform for gathering photos taken by smartphones and using that data to build a 3D model of the world. Mapillary’s model of the world includes labeled objects such as

Generative Models with Doug Eck
 Podcast Thursday, October 11 2018
Google Brain is an engineering team focused on deep learning research and applications. One growing area of interest within Google Brain is that of generative models. A generative model

DevOps at Microsoft with Martin Woodward
 Podcast Friday, October 12 2018
The Windows operating system is one of the most widely used pieces of software in history. Windows was started before there was any alternative to a monolithic codebase, because

OpenShift Kubernetes Platform
 Article 
In the age of cloud and containers, Kubernetes holds a central place in the vocabulary of developers that want to stay current and to get an advantage over their competitors. In its

Data Warehouse with Christian Kleinerman
 Podcast Monday, October 15 2018
A data warehouse provides fast access to large data sets for analytics, data science, and dashboards. A data warehouse differs from a transactional database, because you often do not

Open vSwitch: Virtual Networking with Ben Pfaff
 Podcast Tuesday, October 16 2018
Virtual machines are operating system instances that run alongside each other on the same physical host. The virtual machines running on a physical host are managed by a hypervisor

An Introduction to Database Reliability
 Article 
Gone are the days of the monolithic SQL database application. Startups and enterprise are leveraging distributed datastores spread across the cloud to solve their data problems. The

Cloud Search with Liam Cavanagh
 Podcast Wednesday, October 17 2018
Search is part of almost every application. Users search for movies to watch. Engineers search through terabytes of log messages to find exceptions. Drivers search through maps to find a

Open Source Product Strategy with Shaun Connolly
 Podcast Thursday, October 18 2018
Linux has created much more value for Google than it has for Linus Torvalds. Ruby on Rails has created more value for Airbnb than it has for David Heinemeier Hansson. Successful open

DataOps and the Data Platform
 Article Thursday, October 18 2018
They say that data, if tortured enough, will confess to anything. Maybe this is the explanation behind how and why data became a buzzword by the end of the 90s when hard drive production

AWS Containers with Deepak Singh
 Podcast Friday, October 19 2018
Deepak Singh is the director of compute services at AWS, where he works on cloud products relating to containers, Linux, and High Performance Computing. In today’s show, Deepak

Google JavaScript with Malte Ubl
 Podcast Monday, October 22 2018
Google Search is a highly interactive JavaScript application. As you enter a query, results are being automatically suggested to you before you even finish typing. When you press enter,

React and GraphQL at the NYTimes
 Article 
The New York Times is one of the largest and most respected media publications today. The Times must continue to innovate with the articles and content they write and also the digital

DevSecOps with Edward Thomson
 Podcast Tuesday, October 23 2018
DevSecOps emphasizes moving security out of a siloed audit process and distributing security practices throughout the software supply chain. In the past, software development usually

MongoDB Atlas: Database as a Service
 Article Tuesday, October 23 2018
MongoDB is a sponsor of Software Engineering Daily. Databases are essential to companies. Database technology has been in development for more than 40 years, and numerous options have

JAM Stack with Phil Hawksworth
 Podcast Wednesday, October 24 2018
Engineers can build applications faster by using tools that abstract away infrastructure. Major cloud providers offer this tooling in the form of functions-as-a-service, as well as

Recommendation Systems
 Article 
Featured Image Source What is a Recommendation System? Every personalized ad on Google, recommended video on YouTube, or Discover Weekly playlist on Spotify is made possible with a set

Flogo: Event-Driven Ecosystem with Leon Stigter and Matt Ellis
 Podcast Thursday, October 25 2018
A smart security camera takes in a high volume of video images and processes those images using a set of machine learning models. Those models can be used to identify interesting

Blockchain Distribution Network with Aleksandar Kuzmanovic
 Podcast Friday, October 26 2018
Cryptocurrencies are not very usable today. The main use cases for cryptocurrencies today are store of value (somewhat like gold) and speculation. One reason that the use cases are so

Finding the Right Company Values
 Article Friday, October 26 2018
Since engineers are more sought after than ever, they have incredible leverage to find a great place to work. Even though salary and benefits may be the primary movers for choosing a

Gig Economy
 Podcast Sunday, October 28 2018
I like to write music, and a year ago I started working on an album called “Gig Economy”. The plan for the album was to hire musicians from gig economy platforms like Fiverr and

Building a Hiring Process with Ammon Bartram
 Podcast Monday, October 29 2018
Engineers who start companies often find themselves building something they have no experience with: a hiring process. Hiring engineers today is not as systematic as building software.

Serverless Instant Checkout Links with Square
 Article 
This Article was originally written by Richard Moot on Medium. Reposted with permission from Square. Servers beware! Watch out containers! Our serverless overlords are here! There is a

Drift: Sales Bot Engineering with David Cancel
 Podcast Tuesday, October 30 2018
David Cancel has started five companies, most recently Drift. Drift is a conversational marketing and sales platform. David has a depth of engineering skills and a breadth of business

Serverless Backend using AWS Lambda: Hands-on Guide
 Article Tuesday, October 30 2018
This article was originally written by Rajat S on Medium. Reposted with permission from Bits and Pieces. Serverless architecture refers to the concept where you give your backend logic

Diffbot: Knowledge Graph API with Mike Tung
 Podcast Wednesday, October 31 2018
Google Search allows humans to find and access information across the web. A human enters an unstructured query into the search box, the search engine provides several links as a result,

Powering Search and Discovery at VICE
 Article 
This Article was originally written by Michael Henderson on Medium. Reposted with permission from VICE Tech. At VICE Media, we have a lot of content. At the time of writing, we have

Wonolo: Staffing Marketplace with Jeremy Burton
 Podcast Thursday, November 1 2018
Online labor marketplaces are widely used for one-to-one transactions. On Uber, a rider hires a driver for transportation. On TaskRabbit, a homeowner hires a cleaner to come clean their

Uber’s Big Data Platform: 100+ Petabytes with Minute Latency
 Article 
This article was originally written by Reza Shiftehfar on Uber’s Engineering Blog. Reposted with permission from Uber Engineering. Uber is committed to delivering safer and more

Scaling Lyft with Matt Klein
 Podcast Friday, November 2 2018
Matt Klein has worked for three rapidly growing Internet companies. At AWS, he worked on EC2, the compute-as-a-service product that powers a large percentage of the Internet. At Twitter,

Building a Big Data Pipeline With Airflow, Spark and Zeppelin
 Article 
Featured Image: “black tunnel interior with white lights” by Jared Arango on Unsplash This Article was originally written by Mahdi Karabiben on Medium. Reposted with permission.

Commons Clause with Kevin Wang
 Podcast Monday, November 5 2018
Open source software powers everything we do on the Internet. Google runs on Linux servers. Content sites are served by WordPress. Our data is queued in Kafka clusters and stored in

How we serve 25M API calls from 10 scalable global endpoints for $150 a month
 Article 
This Article was originally written by Jonathan Kosgei on FreeCodeCamp. Reposted with permission. I woke up on Black Friday last year to a barrage of emails from users reporting 503

OSS Capital with Joseph Jacks
 Podcast Tuesday, November 6 2018
Open source projects benefit from the network effects of a large audience of developers. A popular open source project will be contributed to and used by thousands of developers, who are

Capacity planning for Etsy’s web and API clusters
 Article Tuesday, November 6 2018
This Article was originally written by Daniel Schauenberg on Code as Craft. Reposted with permission. Capacity planning for the web and API clusters powering etsy.com has historically

Computer Architecture with Dave Patterson
 Podcast Wednesday, November 7 2018
An instruction set defines a low level programming language for moving information throughout a computer. In the early 1970’s, the prevalent instruction set language used a large

Cloud Cost Optimization
 Article 
This post is sponsored by DoiT International. Utilizing the cloud in your business or application is a requirement in today’s tech environment. AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud

Computer Vision with Peter Kontschieder
 Podcast Thursday, November 8 2018
Mapillary is a company that processes high volumes of images to develop a labeled 3-D model of the physical world. Mapillary’s APIs allow developers to build applications that are

12 Factor Applications with GatsbyJS
 Article 
This article was originally written by Scott Taylor on Medium. Reposted with permission. GatsbyJS is great for generating static sites. If you are not familiar with the concept: a

TLA+ with Leslie Lamport
 Podcast Friday, November 9 2018
TLA+ is a formal specification language. TLA+ is used to design, model, and verify concurrent systems. TLA+ allows a user to describe a system formally with simple, precise mathematics.

Converged Data Platform: Unifying Streaming Data using MapR
 Article 
Stream processing and distributed database management are concerns that most enterprises dealing with data analytics and real-time data processing have. Most enterprises today use data

Open Policy Agent with Torin Sandall
 Podcast Monday, November 12 2018
Policies define which users and applications can access and modify resources in a computer system. In a file system, a user might have permission to read or write to a file. In a cloud

Building a Serverless End-to-End Solution for Brand Detection in Video
 Article 
This article was originally written by Juri Sarbach on Medium. Reposted with permission. Some time ago, we were asked by a client to help them on the technical implementation of a

Fission: Serverless on Kubernetes with Soam Vasani
 Podcast Tuesday, November 13 2018
Serverless computing abstracts away the idea of a server node. Serverless lets programmers treat compute resources as high-level, reliable APIs, rather than unreliable, low-level compute

React Component Management
 Article Tuesday, November 13 2018
Components have taken over front-end development. Chances are if you’re developing a web application UI layer, you have integrated some kind of component via a framework like React or

SPIFFE: Zero Trust Workload Identification with Evan Gilman
 Podcast Wednesday, November 14 2018
Modern software consists of sprawling international networks of servers. Users contact these servers to access applications. Microservices talk to each other to fulfill complicated

Scaling Time Series Data Storage — Part II
 Article 
This article was originally written by Dhruv Garg, Dhaval Patel, Ketan Duvedi on Medium. Reposted with permission. In January 2016 Netflix expanded worldwide, opening service to

Liquid Software with Baruch Sadogursky
 Podcast Thursday, November 15 2018
The software release process is a barrier between written code and a live production environment that affects users. A software release process can involve a variety of different

GraphQL: A success story for PayPal Checkout
 Article 
This post was originally written by Mark Stuart of PayPal Engineering on Medium. Reposted with permission. At PayPal, we recently introduced GraphQL to our technology stack. If you

Reflow: Distributed Incremental Processing with Marius Eriksen
 Podcast Friday, November 16 2018
The volume of data in the world is always increasing. The costs of storing that data is always decreasing. And the means for processing that data is always evolving. Sensors, cameras,

Website Performance Monitoring Using FullStory Dev Tools
 Article 
These days a website needs to load quickly. If it doesn’t, then there’s a strong chance users will abandon the site altogether. In fact, 40% of users are likely to navigate away from

Schedulers with Adrian Cockcroft Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Monday, November 19 2018
Originally published on July 6, 2016. Scheduling is the method by which work is assigned to resources to complete that work. At the operating system level, this can mean scheduling of

Cloud Deep Dive: Part 2 — Serverless Stock Service
 Article 
Pakhnyushchy/Shutterstock This post was originally written by Pieter Raubenheimer on Medium. Reposted with permission. In Part 1, we started building out the Cloud Pizza Place — a

Salary Negotiation with Haseeb Qureshi Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Tuesday, November 20 2018
Featured Image Photo Credits Originally posted on July 11, 2016. Negotiation is an important skill for software engineers. The salary you negotiate at the beginning of your job could be

Poker Artificial Intelligence with Noam Brown Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Wednesday, November 21 2018
Originally posted on May 12, 2015. Humans have now been defeated by computers at heads up no-limit holdem poker. Some people thought this wouldn’t be possible. Sure, we can teach a

Algorithms to Live By with Brian Christian Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Thursday, November 22 2018
Originally posted on May 12, 2016. When you are deciding who to marry, you are using an algorithm. The same is true when you are looking for a parking space, playing a game of poker, or

Death and Distributed Systems with Pieter Hintjens Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Friday, November 23 2018
Originally posted on June 23, 2016. Pieter Hintjens grew up writing software by himself. The act of writing code brought him great pleasure, but the isolated creative process

Parity: Blockchain Infrastructure with Gavin Wood
 Podcast Monday, November 26 2018
Parity is a company that builds blockchain infrastructure. Parity has built several open source projects and works with enterprises to put blockchain technology in production. Gavin Wood

Istio Routing Basics
 Article 
This post was originally written by Mete Atamel. Reposted with permission. When learning a new technology like Istio, it’s always a good idea to take a look at sample apps. Istio repo

Serverless on Kubernetes: Cloud Native Apps with Functions-as-Service
 Article Monday, November 26 2018
Serverless and Containers: Friends or Foes Serverless versus containers: the tech industry has pitted serverless and containers against each other. We are constantly reminded of the

Facet Wealth Engineering with Gorkem Sevinc
 Podcast Tuesday, November 27 2018
Many people have saved some money which they want to invest for the future. Some people are happy investing their money in a roboadviser, which programmatically puts money into long-term

Report: “We went Monorepo.”
 Article 
This post was originally written by Gunar Gessner. Reposted with permission. In October we decided to make a horizontal investment in speed and decided to go monorepo with our services
Slack Messaging Architecture with Keith Adams
 Podcast Wednesday, November 28 2018
Slack is a real-time messaging system for work communication. On Slack, chat rooms as big as 100,000 people have productive conversations. This might sound like the same problem solved

Building a rewards platform from scratch
 Article 
This post was originally written by Pedro Franceschi on Medium. Reposted with permission. Brex is launching rewards today. This post aims to go over the design decisions that we made

Cloud Costs with Ran Rothschild
 Podcast Thursday, November 29 2018
Cloud computing changed the economics of running a software company. Before the cloud, a software company had to purchase physical machines which often required thousands of dollars paid

Software and Entrepreneurship with Seth Godin
 Article 
Seth Godin is a successful writer and speaker who has been involved in the software development industry for decades. In this episode, we sat down with Seth to learn about the best ways

Anchor: Podcast Platform with Nir Zicherman
 Podcast Friday, November 30 2018
Podcasts have surged in popularity, but the podcast ecosystem remains difficult to work with. Podcast listeners have difficulty finding episodes. Podcast creators have difficulty finding

Mesosphere DC/OS: The Operating System of the Distributed Cloud
 Article 
Mesosphere provides the leading products for hybrid and multi-cloud infrastructure automation and data-driven application acceleration, Mesosphere DC/OS – Distributed Cloud

On-Prem Cloud with Bob Fraser
 Podcast Monday, December 3 2018
Not every company wants to move to the public cloud. Some companies have already built data centers, and can continue to operate their business with their own servers. Some companies

Scaling Machine Learning at Uber with Michelangelo
 Article Monday, December 3 2018
This post was originally written by Jeremy Hermann & Mike Del Balso on Uber Engineering. Reposted with permission. In September 2017, we published an article

Streaming Platform Architecture with Luca Mezzalira and Yan Cui
 Podcast Tuesday, December 4 2018
Demand for live streaming video over the internet is increasing. After the emergence of early live streaming platforms, like Twitch and Facebook Live, more forms of video have become

Build Versus Buy for Cloud-Native Applications
 Article 
Building in the cloud equals decisions, decisions, decisions Building any application in the cloud today comes with an incredible amount of decisions to make. Which orchestration

Bitcoin Payment Channels with Alex Bosworth
 Podcast Wednesday, December 5 2018
The Bitcoin main chain is a large distributed ledger of transactions. Bitcoin is useful for maintaining a trusted record of payments, but is not practical for small day-to-day payments.

RapidAPI: API Marketplace with Iddo Gino
 Podcast Thursday, December 6 2018
Building software was simplified by cloud providers. With the cloud, it became much easier to deploy a server, spin up a database, and scale an application. Cloud providers like AWS gave

Technical Investing with Sunil Dhaliwal
 Podcast Friday, December 7 2018
Robotics, genomics, and backend infrastructure: as an investor, it can be difficult to assess the viability of a startup that is on the cutting edge in any of these areas. A robotics

The Lessons and Challenges of Managing Engineers with Ron Lichty
 Article 
A common path for engineers is to become managers of other engineers. Engineering management requires a whole new set of skills outside of coding, debugging, and testing. In this

Chinese Open Source Software
 Article Sunday, December 9 2018
The major Chinese cloud providers have all adopted Kubernetes, the open source container orchestration system. The biggest publicly sized Kubernetes cluster in the world runs at JD.com,

Serverless Research with Ion Stoica
 Podcast Monday, December 10 2018
The Berkeley AMPLab was a research lab where Apache Spark and Apache Mesos were both created. In the last five years, the Mesos and Spark projects have changed the way infrastructure is

Dropbox traffic infrastructure: Edge network
 Article 
This post was originally written by Oleg Guba and Alexey Ivanov on the Dropbox Blog. Reposted with permission. In this post we will describe the Edge network part of Dropbox traffic

Feature Flags with Edith Harbaugh
 Podcast Tuesday, December 11 2018
Releasing software has inherent risk. If your users don’t like your new feature, they might stop using your product immediately. If a software bug makes it into production, it can

Shaping Chick-fil-A One Traffic in a Multi-Region Active-Active Architecture
 Article 
This post was originally written by  Christopher Lane, Jamey Hammock, & Brian Chambers on Medium. Reposted with permission. In this post, we will share about the architecture

High Growth Handbook with Elad Gil
 Podcast Wednesday, December 12 2018
When a startup finds product market fit, the adoption of that product can grow rapidly, turning a startup into a high growth company. All of a sudden, a startup that was struggling to

The Design of Functional Programs
 Article 
Featured Image Credit Functional programming can provide an excellent alternative for developers looking to write bug-free, scalable code. In this episode of Software Engineering Daily,

Plaid: Banking API Platform with Jean-Denis Greze
 Podcast Thursday, December 13 2018
A bank account is a platform for apps to be built on top of. If that sounds like a weird idea, think about the features of a bank account. Most users only have a single bank account,

slsML: Towards elastic ML infrastructure on AWS Lambda
 Article Thursday, December 13 2018
Featured Image Credit This article was originally written by Alex Glikson on Medium. Reposted with permission. The seamless elasticity of ‘serverless’ Function-as-a-Service (FaaS)

Full Stack JavaScript with Wes Bos
 Podcast Friday, December 14 2018
Wes Bos has created popular courses on React, GraphQL, and JavaScript. With hundreds of thousands of students, Wes has earned a cult following for his fun, practical lessons on web

Cloud Database Performance: Scaling MongoDB Atlas
 Article 
The database, the cornerstone of many software products, is increasingly hosted in the cloud. The previous MongoDB Atlas: Database as a Service article was focused on the challenges of

Mattermost: Self-Hosted Slack Alternative with Corey Hulen
 Podcast Monday, December 17 2018
Software companies today rely on group chat applications. The world of startups and small businesses is dominated by Slack. But for some large enterprises, regulatory constraints prevent

Walking the Wire: Mastering the Four Decisions in Microservices Architecture
 Article 
credit: Wiros from Barcelona, Spain This post was originally written by Srinath Perera on Medium. Reposted with permission. Microservices are the new architectural style for building

Market Strategy with Herb Cunitz
 Podcast Tuesday, December 18 2018
Market strategy defines how a company is positioning itself to be successful. This strategy encompasses engineering, sales, marketing, recruiting, and everything else within a company.

Linkerd Service Mesh with William Morgan
 Podcast Wednesday, December 19 2018
Software products are distributed across more and more servers as they grow. With the proliferation of cloud providers like AWS, these large infrastructure deployments have become much

Modern Front End: React, GraphQL, VR, WebAssembly with Adam Conrad
 Podcast Thursday, December 20 2018
Ten years ago, there was a distinction between “backend” and “frontend” developers. A backend developer would be managing the business logic and database transactions using Ruby

Rockset Data Platform with Venkat Venkataramani
 Podcast Friday, December 21 2018
At Facebook, Venkat Venkataramani saw how large volumes of data were changing software infrastructure. Applications such as logging servers and advertising were creating fast moving,

Service Proxying with Matt Klein Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Monday, December 24 2018
Originally posted on 14 February 2017. Most tech companies are moving toward a highly distributed microservices architecture. In this architecture, services are decoupled from each other

Google Early Days with John Looney Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Tuesday, December 25 2018
Originally posted on 16 June 2017. John Looney spent more than 10 years at Google. He started with infrastructure, and was part of the team that migrated Google File System to Colossus,

Technology Utopia with Michael Solana Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Wednesday, December 26 2018
Originally posted on 1 May 2018. Technology is pushing us rapidly toward a future that is impossible to forecast. We try to imagine what that future might look like, and we can’t help

Self-Driving Deep Learning with Lex Fridman Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Thursday, December 27 2018
Originally posted on 28 July 2017. Self-driving cars are here. Fully autonomous systems like Waymo are being piloted in less complex circumstances. Human-in-the-loop systems like Tesla

Word2Vec with Adrian Colyer Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Friday, December 28 2018
Originally posted on 13 September 2017. Machines understand the world through mathematical representations. In order to train a machine learning model, we need to describe everything in

Crossplane: Multicloud Control Plane with Bassam Tabbara
 Podcast Wednesday, January 2 2019
Cloud providers created the ability for developers to easily deploy their applications to servers on data centers. In the early days of the cloud, most of the code that a developer wrote

Ubiquity6: Augmented Reality Platform with Ankit Kumar
 Podcast Thursday, January 3 2019
Augmented reality glasses will let us walk through a world where the digital blends together with the physical. 3-D objects will be rendered and superimposed onto our field of vision,

Build Satellite Applications with AWS Ground Station
 Article 
At AWS re:Invent 2018, Amazon Web Services (AWS) announced AWS Ground Station service. AWS Ground Station is a fully managed network of 12 ground station antennas located around the

Kong API Platform with Marco Palladino
 Podcast Friday, January 4 2019
When a user makes a request to product like The New York Times, that request hits an API gateway. An API gateway is the entry point for an external request. An API gateway serves several

Stateful Kubernetes with Saad Ali
 Podcast Monday, January 7 2019
In a cloud infrastructure environment, failures happen regularly. The servers can fail, the network can fail, and software bugs can crash your software unexpectedly. The amount of

Multicloud with Ben Hindman
 Podcast Tuesday, January 8 2019
Most applications today are either deployed to on-premise environments or deployed to a single cloud provider. Developers who are deploying on-prem struggle to set up complicated open

re:Invent in Review: Adrian Cockcroft, Abby Fuller, and Deepak Singh Discuss AWS
 Article Tuesday, January 8 2019
At AWS re:Invent, the Software Engineering Daily team spoke with AWS technologists: Adrian Cockcroft, VP of Cloud Architecture Strategy Deepak Singh, Director of Compute Services Abby

Cloud Events with Doug Davis
 Podcast Wednesday, January 9 2019
Functions-as-a-service allow developers to run their code in a “serverless” environment. A developer can provide a function to a cloud provider and the code for that function will be

Zeit: Serverless Cloud with Guillermo Rauch
 Podcast Thursday, January 10 2019
Serverless computing is a technique for deploying applications without an addressable server. A serverless application is running on servers, but the developer does not have access to

AWS Analysis with Corey Quinn
 Podcast Friday, January 11 2019
Amazon Web Services changed how software engineers work. Before AWS, it was common for startups to purchase their own physical servers. AWS made server resources as accessible as an API

Why Is Storage On Kubernetes So Hard?
 Article 
Container orchestration tools like Kubernetes are revolutionizing the way applications are being developed and deployed. With the rise of the microservices architecture and decoupling of

Kubernetes in China with Dan Kohn
 Podcast Monday, January 14 2019
Chinese Internet companies operate at a massive scale. WeChat has over a billion users and is widely used as the primary means of payment by urban Chinese consumers. Alibaba ships 12

Notebooks at Netflix with Matthew Seal
 Podcast Tuesday, January 15 2019
Netflix has petabytes of data and thousands of workloads running across that data every day. These workloads generate movie recommendations for users, create dashboards for data analysts

Human Sized Robots with Zach Allen
 Podcast Wednesday, January 16 2019
Robots are making their way into every area of our lives. Security robots roll around industrial parks at night, monitoring the area for intruders. Amazon robots tirelessly move packages

Looker: Business Intelligence Platform with Daniel Mintz
 Podcast Thursday, January 17 2019
If a business has been operating successfully for a few years, that business has accumulated a high volume of data. That data exists in spreadsheets, CSV files, log files, and balance

Spot Instances with Amiram Shachar
 Podcast Friday, January 18 2019
When a developer provisions a cloud server, that server is called an “instance”. These instances can be used for running whatever workload a developer has, whether it is a web

Prometheus Scalability with Bryan Boreham
 Podcast Monday, January 21 2019
Prometheus is an open source monitoring system and time series database. Prometheus includes a multi-dimensional data model, a query language called PromQL, and a pull model for

RSocket: Reactive Streaming Service Networking with Ryland Degnan
 Podcast Tuesday, January 22 2019
Netflix has thousands of service instances communicating with each other. When a Netflix client on a smartphone makes a request for a movie, that request hits Netflix’s backend, where

Storybook: UI Engineering with Zoltan Olah
 Podcast Wednesday, January 23 2019
React, Vue, and Angular are the most popular frontend JavaScript frameworks. Each of these frameworks lets frontend developers build components. A component is a high level visual

TiDB: Distributed NewSQL with Kevin Xu
 Podcast Thursday, January 24 2019
When a user interacts with an application to order a ride with a ridesharing app, the data for that user interaction is written to a “transactional” database. A transactional

Kubeflow: TensorFlow on Kubernetes with David Aronchick
 Podcast Friday, January 25 2019
When TensorFlow came out of Google, the machine learning community converged around it. TensorFlow is a framework for building machine learning models, but the lifecycle of a machine

Software Chasms with Martin Casado
 Podcast Monday, January 28 2019
Infrastructure software can be a great business. An infrastructure software company sells core technology to a large enterprise such as a bank or insurance company. This software has

Likewar: The Weaponization of Social Media with P.W. Singer
 Podcast Tuesday, January 29 2019
Social media has transformed our lives. It has also transformed how wars are fought. P.W. Singer’s new book “Likewar: The Weaponization of Social Media” describes the far-reaching

Anatomy of Next: New World with Mike Solana
 Podcast Wednesday, January 30 2019
Mars is a cold, inhospitable planet far from earth. It presents one of the most complex challenges faced by engineers: how can we create a new world? To create a new world, first we have

Architects of Intelligence with Martin Ford
 Podcast Thursday, January 31 2019
Artificial intelligence is reshaping every aspect of our lives, from transportation to agriculture to dating. Someday, we may even create a superintelligence–a computer system that

Engineering Philosophy with Tyler Cowen
 Podcast Friday, February 1 2019
Tyler Cowen’s book Stubborn Attachments outlines a framework that individuals can use to make decisions grounded in economic philosophy. In his previous books, Tyler examined recent

Scaling HashiCorp with Armon Dadgar and Mitchell Hashimoto
 Podcast Monday, February 4 2019
HashiCorp was founded seven years ago with the goal of building infrastructure tools for automating cloud workflows such as provisioning, secret management, and service discovery.

RocksDB with Dhruba Borthakur and Igor Canadi
 Podcast Tuesday, February 5 2019
RocksDB is a storage engine based on the log-structured merge tree data structure. RocksDB was developed at Facebook to provide a tool for embedded databases. The code for RocksDB is a

Cadre: Automated Investing with Leonid Movsesyan
 Podcast Wednesday, February 6 2019
Real estate is an asset that is not straightforward to invest in. Real estate can generate excellent returns for investors, but can require much more time and expertise than stocks.

VMware Kubernetes Strategy with Brad Meiseles
 Podcast Thursday, February 7 2019
Virtualization software allows companies to get better utilization from their physical servers. A single physical host can manage multiple virtual machines using a hypervisor. VMware

Knative: Serverless Workloads with Ville Aikas
 Podcast Friday, February 8 2019
Infrastructure software is having a renaissance. Cloud providers offer a wide range of deployment tools, including virtual machines, managed Kubernetes clusters, standalone container

Pachyderm: Data Pipelines with Joe Doliner
 Podcast Monday, February 11 2019
Data infrastructure is advancing beyond the days of Hadoop MapReduce, single-node databases, and nightly reporting. Companies are adopting modern data warehouses, streaming data systems,

Uber’s Monitoring Platform with Rob Skillington
 Podcast Tuesday, February 12 2019
Uber manages the car rides for millions of people. The Uber system must remain operational 24/7, and the app involves financial transactions and the safety of passengers. Uber

Replicated: On-Prem Deployments with Grant Miller
 Podcast Wednesday, February 13 2019
Cloud computing has been popular for less than twenty years. Large software companies have existed for much longer. If your company was started before the cloud became popular, you

Kubernetes Security with Liz Rice
 Podcast Thursday, February 14 2019
A Kubernetes cluster presents multiple potential attack surfaces: the cluster itself, a node running on the cluster, a pod running in the node, a container running in a pod. If you are

Ethsimple: Ethereum Tools with Brian Soule
 Podcast Friday, February 15 2019
Ethereum allows developers to run decentralized applications. But the tooling for building and managing those decentralized applications is immature. Experienced software engineers have

Policy Enforcement with Shimon Tolts
 Podcast Monday, February 18 2019
The nature of software projects is changing. Projects are using a wider variety of cloud providers and SaaS tools. Projects are being broken up into more git repositories, and the code

Store2Vec: DoorDash Recommendations with Mitchell Koch
 Podcast Tuesday, February 19 2019
DoorDash is a food delivery company where users find restaurants to order from. When a user opens the DoorDash app, the user can search for types of food or specific restaurants from the

Zoox Self-Driving with Ethan Dreyfuss
 Podcast Wednesday, February 20 2019
Zoox is a full-stack self-driving car company. Zoox engineers work on everything a self-driving car company needs, from the physical car itself to the algorithms running on the car to

PlanetScale: Sharded Database Management with Jiten Vaidya and Dan Kozlowski
 Podcast Thursday, February 21 2019
In the early days of YouTube, there were scalability problems with the MySQL database that hosted the data model for all of YouTube’s videos. The state of the art solution to scaling

React Native Rearchitecture with G2i Team
 Podcast Friday, February 22 2019
React Native allows developers to build native applications for iOS and Android using components written in the React JavaScript framework. These ReactJS components render to native

What Is New About NewSQL?
 Article Sunday, February 24 2019
Most programmers are familiar with SQL and the relational database management systems, or RDBMSs, like MySQL or PostgreSQL. The basic principles for such architectures have been around

Edge Computing Open Source with Arpit Joshipura
 Podcast Monday, February 25 2019
Edge computing refers to computation involving drones, connected cars, smart factories, or IoT sensors. Any software deployment that is not a large centralized server installation could

AWS Internet of Things with Dirk Didascalou
 Podcast Tuesday, February 26 2019
Many devices in our world are not “smart.” Air conditioners, electric guitars, power outlets, and factory conveyor belts, just to name a few. There are exciting software applications

China Scale: the New Sandbox to Battle-Test Innovative Technology
 Article 
My 87-year old grandmother lives in a senior home located in the suburb of Shenyang, an industrial sprawl in the Northeastern region of China. She’s tech savvy. She uses three apps to

Fake Podcast Charts with Jack Rhysider
 Podcast Wednesday, February 27 2019
Podcast listeners usually find out about a new podcast in one of two ways: either a friend recommends that podcast or the Apple podcast charts rank that new podcast highly. The Apple

Ad Fraud Economics with Craig Silverman
 Podcast Thursday, February 28 2019
Advertising fraud steals billions of dollars every year. BuzzFeed reporter Craig Silverman reports on advertising fraud and its impact on the Internet. In one investigation, Craig

Internet History (and Future) with Brian McCullough
 Podcast Friday, March 1 2019
The Internet has transformed humanity. The Internet is the result of a long series of innovations from military, academia, business, and the open source community. In his book, How The

FindCollabs
 Podcast Sunday, March 3 2019
Collaboration on the Internet creates innovation. New inventions, new art, and new products–built by people working together on the Internet. FindCollabs is a product we have been

StarkWare: Transparent Computational Integrity with Eli Ben Sasson
 Podcast Monday, March 4 2019
Computational integrity is a property that is required for financial transactions on the Internet. Computational integrity means that the output of a certain computation is correct. If I

Ethereum Usability with Sean Li
 Podcast Tuesday, March 5 2019
Cryptocurrencies enable a large number of applications. Trustless reputation systems, decentralized identity tools, micropayments, non-fungible Internet items, borderless currencies,

WebAssembly Execution with Syrus Akbary
 Podcast Wednesday, March 6 2019
WebAssembly is a runtime that lets languages beyond JavaScript to execute in frontend web applications. WebAssembly is novel because most modern frontend applications are written

LinkedIn Monitoring Infrastructure with Alexander Pucher
 Podcast Thursday, March 7 2019
Monitoring tools are used by every area of an organization. Business development teams use monitoring to understand the metrics for product performance. Finance teams need to understand

Netlify with Mathias Biilmann Christensen
 Podcast Friday, March 8 2019
Cloud computing started to become popular in 2006 with the release of Amazon EC2, a system for deploying applications to virtual machines sitting on remote data center infrastructure .

Energy Market Machine Learning with Minh Dang and Corey Noone
 Podcast Monday, March 11 2019
The demand for electricity is based on the consumption of the electrical grid at a given time. The supply of electricity is based on how much energy is being produced or stored on the

Ad Fraud Engineering with Praneet Sharma and Shailin Dhar
 Podcast Tuesday, March 12 2019
Advertising fraud occurs when a brand pays for an advertisement online and that advertisement is shown to an automated bot account that has been created to view ads. Advertising fraud is

Cryptojacking: Bitcoin Malware with Estaban Vargas
 Podcast Wednesday, March 13 2019
Malware is malicious software that makes money for the creator of that software. Malware can appear onto a user’s computer if that user visits a malicious website or installs malicious

Linux Kernel Development with Shuah Khan
 Podcast Thursday, March 14 2019
An operating system kernel manages the system resources that are needed to run applications. The Linux kernel runs most of the smart devices that we interact with, and is the largest

GitLab with Sid Sijbrandij
 Podcast Friday, March 15 2019
GitLab is an open source platform for software development. GitLab started with the ability to manage git repositories and now has functionality for collaboration, issue tracking,

FindCollabs: Share Your Open Source Projects and Find Collaborators
 Article Saturday, March 16 2019
Every creative person has a project–or at least a project idea. FindCollabs is a place to share your projects, whether those projects are new or old. Your project doesn’t even

Crypto Bubble with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Sunday, March 17 2019
This is a post written and narrated by Haseeb Qureshi, a cryptocurrency investor and entrepreneur. Haseeb is speaking at an upcoming Software Engineering Daily Meetup. We can safely say

OSS Businesses with Mike Volpi
 Podcast Monday, March 18 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Red Hat was the first commercial open source

Serverless GraphQL with Tanmai Gopal
 Podcast Tuesday, March 19 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Modern web development tools have given frontend

ElasticSearch at Scale with Volkan Yazici
 Podcast Wednesday, March 20 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Bol.com is the biggest e-commerce company in the

FaunaDB with Evan Weaver
 Podcast Thursday, March 21 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Twitter’s early engineers faced scalability

Apache Superset with Maxime Beauchemin
 Podcast Friday, March 22 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Data engineering touches every area of an

CodeSandbox: Online Code Editor with Bas Buursma and Ives van Hoorne
 Podcast Monday, March 25 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Coding in the browser has been attempted several

Security Businesses with Steve Herrod
 Podcast Tuesday, March 26 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Steve Herrod was the CTO at VMware and now works

Scaling Log Management with Renaud Boutet
 Podcast Wednesday, March 27 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Log management requires the processing and

Peloton: Uber’s Cluster Scheduler with Min Cai and Mayank Bansal
 Podcast Thursday, March 28 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Google’s Borg system is a cluster manager that

Workload Scheduling with Brian Grant
 Podcast Friday, March 29 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Google has been building large-scale scheduling

Uber Infrastructure with Prashant Varanasi and Akshay Shah
 Podcast Monday, April 1 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Uber’s infrastructure supports millions of

Blitzscaling with Chris Yeh
 Podcast Tuesday, April 2 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Chris Yeh is an entrepreneur, investor, and

Stablecoins with Rune Christensen
 Podcast Wednesday, April 3 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 A currency can fulfill numerous financial use

Data with Ben Lorica
 Podcast Thursday, April 4 2019
Upcoming events: A Conversation with Haseeb Qureshi at Cloudflare on April 3, 2019 FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 Ben Lorica is the chief data scientist at

Project Health: Assessing Open Source Projects with More Context
 Article 
I have a habit of scrolling through Hacker News at least once a day, checking out both its front page and the “new” section. Besides getting a general pulse on what developers like

AWS Compute with Deepak Singh
 Podcast Friday, April 5 2019
Upcoming event: FindCollabs Hackathon at App Academy on April 6, 2019 On Amazon Web Services, there are many ways to run an application on a single node. The first compute option on AWS

AWS Storage with Kevin Miller
 Podcast Monday, April 8 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs $5000 Hackathon Ends Saturday April 15th, 2019 New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software Daily is looking for help with

Finding Collaborators and Feeling Free
 Article 
On the beat, I paused the music, put down the finger I had been waving in the air, and then clicked back to my findcollabs.com tab. Fingers poised above my keyboard, I looked up. Jeff
A screenshot of the Feel Free Jam project on FindCollabs.com
Streaming with Holden Karau
 Podcast Tuesday, April 9 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs $5000 Hackathon Ends Saturday April 15th, 2019 New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software Daily is looking for help with

Discoverability at the FindCollabs Hackathon
 Article 
Attendees at the San Francisco branch of the FindCollabs hackathon were, in some ways, representative of the larger culture of the Bay Area tech world. We came from all over. We varied

Conventional Wisdom and the Value of Convening
 Article Tuesday, April 9 2019
This past Saturday, I walked into App Academy’s classroom on Battery, unsure what I would do. I knew it would be full of strangers, but I was unsure how many. All I knew was that I
A screenshot of findcolabs.com showing two of the projects in the category "Art"
Machine Learning Joins with Arun Kumar
 Podcast Wednesday, April 10 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs $5000 Hackathon Ends Saturday April 15th, 2019 New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software Daily is looking for help with

Consul Service Mesh with Paul Banks
 Podcast Thursday, April 11 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs $5000 Hackathon Ends Saturday April 15th, 2019 New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software Daily is looking for help with

Winning Isn’t the Only Way to Win
 Article 
But winning can be quite nice, too. You’d think that even in Silicon Valley, five thousand dollars ($4000 for top project, $1000 for second) would be motivating, but at the FindCollabs
Collaborating on Collaborating
 Article Friday, April 12 2019
To me, one of the more interesting projects I’ve found on FindCollabs is ResearchCollabs, a collaboration tool specifically for academic research. I wondered why such a tool would be
Bubbles with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Friday, April 12 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs $5000 Hackathon Ends Saturday April 15th, 2019 New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software Daily is looking for help with

Podsheets: Open Source Podcasting
 Podcast Sunday, April 14 2019
Podsheets is a set of open source tools for podcast hosting, publishing, ad management, community engagement, and more. Podsheets is influenced by our experience managing Software

Protein Structure Deep Learning with Mohammed Al Quraishi
 Podcast Monday, April 15 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software

Lyft Data Discovery with Tao Feng and Mark Grover
 Podcast Tuesday, April 16 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software

Drishti: Deep Learning for Manufacturing with Krish Chaudhury
 Podcast Wednesday, April 17 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software

Facebook OSS License Policy with Joel Marcey, Michael Cheng, and Kathy Kam
 Podcast Thursday, April 18 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software

Products with Ryan Hoover
 Podcast Friday, April 19 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service Software

Serverless Runtimes with Steren Giannini
 Podcast Monday, April 22 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service FindCollabs

Observability Engineering with James Burns
 Podcast Tuesday, April 23 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service FindCollabs

gVisor: Secure Container Sandbox with Yoshi Tamura
 Podcast Wednesday, April 24 2019
RECENT UPDATES: Podsheets is our open source set of tools for managing podcasts and podcast businesses New version of Software Daily, our app and ad-free subscription service FindCollabs

Intricately: Mapping the Internet with Fima Leshinsky
 Podcast Thursday, April 25 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs is a company I started recently The FindCollabs Podcast is out! FindCollabs is hiring a React developer FindCollabs Hackathon #1 has ended! Congrats to

Cloud with Eric Brewer
 Podcast Friday, April 26 2019
RECENT UPDATES: FindCollabs is a company I started recently The FindCollabs Podcast is out! FindCollabs is hiring a React developer FindCollabs Hackathon #1 has ended! Congrats to

Lyft’s Data Platform with Li Gao
 Podcast Monday, April 29 2019
FindCollabs is a company I started recently The FindCollabs Podcast is out! FindCollabs is hiring a React developer FindCollabs Hackathon #1 has ended! Congrats to ARhythm, Kitspace, and

Container Platform Security with Maya Kaczorowski
 Podcast Tuesday, April 30 2019
A Kubernetes instance occupies a wide footprint of multiple servers, creating an appealing target to an attacker, due to its access to a large pool of compute resources. A common attack

Software Growth with Greg Kogan
 Podcast Wednesday, May 1 2019
Growing a software business requires an understanding of engineering, sales, and marketing. As we learn software engineering, we also pick up some knowledge about how a business should

Security Monitoring with Jeff Williams
 Podcast Thursday, May 2 2019
The modern software supply chain contains many different points of distribution: JavaScript frameworks, npm modules, Docker containers, open source repositories, cloud providers, on-prem

Online Learning
 Article 
Machine learning and AI are concepts that are ever-growing and are continually being integrated into the workloads of more enterprises. If you are in the software field, you probably

Satellite Data Platform with Tim Kelton
 Podcast Friday, May 3 2019
Satellite images contain vast quantities of data. By analyzing the contents of satellite images over time, we can identify trends in weather, soil, and agriculture. If we combine that

Cloud Database Workloads with Jon Daniel
 Podcast Monday, May 6 2019
Relational databases such as Postgres are often used for critical workloads, such as user account data. To run a relational database service in the cloud requires a cloud provider to set

Kubernetes Virtualization with Paul Czarkowski
 Podcast Tuesday, May 7 2019
Modern server infrastructure usually runs in a virtualized environment. Virtual servers can exist inside of a container or inside of a virtual machine. Containers can also run on virtual

Web Assembly Runtime with Tyler McMullen
 Podcast Wednesday, May 8 2019
WebAssembly is a binary instruction format for applications to run in a memory-constrained, stack-based virtual machine. The WebAssembly ecosystem consists of tools and projects that

Virtual Data with Sunil Kamath
 Podcast Thursday, May 9 2019
Relational data systems have evolved from single node instances to complex distributed systems. Almost any database can be accessed through a SQL statement, but the guarantees of these

Airtable with Howie Liu
 Podcast Friday, May 10 2019
Software engineering is harder than it should be. There are many people who have an app idea that they are not sure how to build. Some of these people are highly technical professionals

Facebook Engineering with Pete Hunt
 Podcast Monday, May 13 2019
Facebook engineering is commonly described by two words: move fast. Building products quickly has been a differentiating characteristic of the company since its inception. From the

Facebook Developers with Nick Schrock
 Podcast Tuesday, May 14 2019
When Facebook was scaling in its early years, the company developed engineering practices that were unlike any other organization before it. Early Facebook engineering developed unusual

Facebook Management with Jocelyn Goldfein
 Podcast Wednesday, May 15 2019
Facebook engineering is designed to self-assemble. When an engineer joins Facebook, the engineer goes through boot camp, where they are exposed to multiple projects to find a good fit in

Introduction to Automated Machine Learning (AutoML)
 Article 
Machine learning is undoubtedly one of the biggest strides in technology. Its methods are employed in fields ranging from biomedical industry to agriculture, from personalized assistants

Facebook React with Dan Abramov
 Podcast Thursday, May 16 2019
React is a set of open source tools for building user interfaces. React was open sourced by Facebook, and includes libraries for creating interfaces on the web (ReactJS) and on mobile

Facebook Strategy with Mike Vernal
 Podcast Friday, May 17 2019
Facebook’s strategy is shaped by long term goals, short term requirements, and the available resources of the company. Long term goals are necessary for thinking through big decisions

Emerging Markets: Kenya with Nelly Cheboi
 Podcast Monday, May 20 2019
Africa is rapidly adopting the same software and hardware technologies that have transformed the western world over the last few decades. But access to computers and technology education

Scaling Intuit with Alex Balazs
 Podcast Tuesday, May 21 2019
Alex Balazs is the Intuit Chief Architect and has been working at the company for almost twenty years. Intuit’s products include QuickBooks, TurboTax, and Mint. These applications are

Monolithic Repositories with Ciera Jaspan
 Podcast Wednesday, May 22 2019
Google’s codebase is managed in a single monolithic repository. An engineer at Google can explore almost any area of the codebase within the entire company. In order to enable this,

Gaming with Eli Brown
 Podcast Thursday, May 23 2019
Gaming is becoming mainstream. Popular multiplayer games such as Fortnite and Minecraft present players with a massive virtual world to explore, build, and compete within. Turn-based

CamelCamelCamel: Amazon Price Tracker with Daniel Green
 Podcast Friday, May 24 2019
CamelCamelCamel is a tool for tracking prices on items on Amazon.com. The company was launched eleven years ago and is built off of the Amazon Product Advertising API. Daniel Green is

Augmented Reality Gaming with Tony Godar
 Podcast Tuesday, May 28 2019
Augmented reality applications can be used on smartphones and dedicated AR headsets. On smartphones, ARCore (Google) and ARKit (Apple) allow developers to build for the camera on a

Netflix Early Days with Greg Burrell
 Podcast Wednesday, May 29 2019
Netflix started with a DVD-by-mail product. The software infrastructure and operations practices needed for the DVD business were very different from those needed by a streaming video

Digital Transformation: Capital One with Hillary McTigue
 Podcast Thursday, May 30 2019
Cloud computing, open source, and mobile computing are trends that affect every organization. When a large organization adapts to these trends, it is commonly referred to as a “digital

What’s Behind Lyft’s Choices in Big Data Tech
 Article 
This post was originally written by Alex Woodie at Datanami. Reposted with permission. Lyft was a late entrant to the ride-sharing business model, at least compared to its competitor

Service Mesh Wars with William Morgan
 Podcast Friday, May 31 2019
A service mesh is an abstraction that provides traffic routing, policy management, and telemetry for a distributed application. A service mesh consists of a data plane and a control

Google Anthos with Aparna Sinha
 Podcast Monday, June 3 2019
Google’s cloud business was long regarded as a place where startups could build a business, but not established enterprises. For serious workloads, enterprises chose Amazon almost

Kubernetes Development with Tim Hockin
 Podcast Tuesday, June 4 2019
Kubernetes has evolved from a nascent project within Google to a thriving ecosystem of cloud providers, open source projects, and engineers. Tim Hockin is a principal software engineer

Multicloud Future with Bassam Tabbara
 Podcast Wednesday, June 5 2019
Each cloud provider offers a different set of services which are not always compatible with each other. What are the challenges of building an application that interoperates with

Service Mesh Interface with Lachlan Evenson
 Podcast Thursday, June 6 2019
Containers offer a lightweight abstraction for running a server. Cloud providers are able to manage billions of containers from different users, allowing for economies of scale so that

Kubernetes Market with Adam Glick
 Podcast Friday, June 7 2019
Amazon Web Services is the leading cloud provider by a large margin. Amazon established its lead by being first to market in 2006, with Google and Microsoft taking several years to catch

Kubernetes Storage with Saad Ali
 Podcast Monday, June 10 2019
Containers are made to fail gracefully. When your container shuts down due to a hardware or software failure, your distributed application should be able to tolerate that failure. One

Kubernetes Vision with Joe Beda
 Podcast Tuesday, June 11 2019
Google Cloud was started with a vision of providing Google infrastructure to the masses. In 2008, it was not obvious that Google should become a cloud provider. Amazon Web Services was

Software Businesses with Hiten Shah
 Podcast Wednesday, June 12 2019
The software market changes every year. As individuals and enterprises become more willing to buy software, there are new markets for entrepreneurs to sell software to. Good software has

Stripe Machine Learning Infrastructure with Rob Story and Kelley Rivoire
 Podcast Thursday, June 13 2019
Machine learning allows software to improve as that software consumes more data. Machine learning is a tool that every software engineer wants to be able to use. Because machine learning

Elegant Puzzle with Will Larson
 Podcast Friday, June 14 2019
Software engineering is an art and a science. To manage engineers is to manage artists and scientists. Software companies build practical tools like payment systems, messaging products,

Render: High Level Cloud with Anurag Goel
 Podcast Monday, June 17 2019
Cloud computing was popularized in 2006 with the launch of Amazon Web Services. AWS allowed developers to use remote server infrastructure with a simple set of APIs. But even with AWS,

Kubernetes Operators with Rob Szumski
 Podcast Tuesday, June 18 2019
Kubernetes has made distributed systems easier to deploy and manage. As Kubernetes has become reliable, engineers have started to look for higher level abstractions we can define on top

Infrastructure Wars with Sheng Liang
 Podcast Wednesday, June 19 2019
Sheng Liang was the lead developer on the original Java Virtual Machine. Today he works as the CEO of Rancher Labs, a company building a platform on top of Kubernetes. Sheng joins the

WebAssembly Compilation with Till Schneidereit
 Podcast Thursday, June 20 2019
WebAssembly allows for web-based execution of languages other than JavaScript. Programs written in Rust or C++ can be compiled down to WebAssembly and shipped over the browser for

Niantic Real World with Paul Franceus
 Podcast Friday, June 21 2019
Niantic is the company behind Pokemon Go, an augmented reality game where users walk around in the real world and catch Pokemon which appear on their screen. The idea for augmented

Project Management with Kurt Schrader
 Podcast Monday, June 24 2019
Software projects are organized and planned using project management software. Examples of project management software include JIRA, Trello, and Asana. There are hundreds of tools for

Airflow in Practice with Chaim Turkel
 Podcast Tuesday, June 25 2019
Apache Airflow is a system for scheduling and monitoring workflows for data engineering. Airflow can be used to schedule ETL jobs, machine learning work, and script execution. Airflow

Afresh: Grocery Store Software with Volodymyr Kuleshov
 Podcast Wednesday, June 26 2019
A grocery store contains fruit, vegetables, meat, bread, and other items that can expire. In order to keep these items in stock, the store must be aware of how much food has been sold

Lambda School Education with Andrew Madsen
 Podcast Thursday, June 27 2019
Programmers are in high demand, and software engineering is a career path that is fun, creative, and lucrative. There are many people who want to transition into a career in software and

Citus Data: Founding to Acquisition with Umur Cubukcu
 Podcast Friday, June 28 2019
A new database company needs to solve numerous problems in order to succeed. There are already lots of existing database companies, so a new company needs to find a way to strongly

FindCollabs Hackathon Winners: Kitspace and Rivaly
 Podcast Saturday, June 29 2019
FindCollabs is a platform for finding collaborators and building projects. Three months ago we had our first hackathon, with lots of projects being created and collaborated on. In an

FoundationDB with Ryan Worl
 Podcast Monday, July 1 2019
FoundationDB is a multi-model distributed key-value store. It is fully ACID compliant and horizontally scalable. FoundationDB is not usually used directly by an application

Google Earth WebAssembly with Jordon Mears
 Podcast Tuesday, July 2 2019
Google Earth allows users to explore the imagery of the real world. Imagery for Google Earth is taken from satellites, cars equipped with cameras, and other sources. Google Earth renders

Permissionless Innovation with Joseph Jacks
 Podcast Wednesday, July 3 2019
Open source software allows developers to take code from the Internet and modify it for their own use. Open source has allowed innovation to occur on a massive scale. Today, open source

ListenNotes: Podcast Search Engine with Wenbin Fang
 Podcast Friday, July 5 2019
ListenNotes allows users to find podcasts by categories, popularity, and search queries. ListenNotes is not a podcast client that you download onto your phone, but it allows users to

You Are Not A Commodity (Keynote at Tikal Full Stack Tech Radar Day)
 Podcast Sunday, July 7 2019
Today’s episode is a keynote I gave at Full Stack Tech Radar Day in Tel Aviv. The talk is called “You Are Not a Commodity”. This talk is also available as a YouTube

Edge Storage with Steve Klabnik
 Podcast Monday, July 8 2019
Edge computing allows for faster data access and computation. When your client application makes a request, that request might be routed to the edge. Edge servers are more numerous and

Software Free Radicals with Lior Kanfi
 Podcast Tuesday, July 9 2019
Creating a software company has never been easier. Software engineers are increasingly seeing entrepreneurship as a viable career path. But the path to being an independent software

gVisor Container Isolation with Michael Pratt and Yoshi Tamura
 Podcast Wednesday, July 10 2019
Software applications running within a host operating system need to be isolated. Isolation prevents security vulnerabilities, such as one application accessing the memory of another. In

Software Media with Charles Max Wood
 Podcast Thursday, July 11 2019
Software engineers have a wide variety of media to choose from, including podcasts, blogs, YouTube videos, conferences. The amount of software engineering media that is available is

Meltano: Data Engineering Lifecycle with Danielle Morrill
 Podcast Friday, July 12 2019
Data engineering allows a company to take advantage of the large quantities of data that the company has generated. In many companies, new data has been produced rapidly for many years,

Facebook PHP with Keith Adams
 Podcast Monday, July 15 2019
Facebook was built using PHP, a programming language that was used widely in the late 90s and early 2000s. PHP allows developers to get web applications built quickly and easily,

Facebook Engineering Culture with Raylene Yung
 Podcast Tuesday, July 16 2019
Facebook moves fast because of vision, collaboration, and trust. The fast pace of development is enabled by constantly improving infrastructure and a sense of unity throughout the

Facebook Data Infrastructure with Dhruba Borthakur
 Podcast Wednesday, July 17 2019
Facebook generates high volumes of data at a rapid pace. Dhruba Borthakur joined Facebook in 2008 to work on data infrastructure. His early projects at Facebook were around Hadoop, the

Facebook Open Source Management with Tom Occhino
 Podcast Thursday, July 18 2019
Facebook has released open source software projects that have changed the industry. The most impactful projects to date are the React frontend user interface tools: ReactJS and React

Facebook GraphQL with Lee Byron
 Podcast Friday, July 19 2019
In 2011, Facebook had begun to focus its efforts on mobile development. Mobile phones did not have access to reliable, high bandwidth connections, and the Facebook engineering team

Emerging Markets: Vietnam with Charles Lee
 Podcast Monday, July 22 2019
From Africa to India to Asia to South America–computer science and programming are rising in popularity in every emerging market. Each of these markets has regional needs for

Data Engineering with Tobias Macey
 Podcast Tuesday, July 23 2019
The Hadoop ecosystem provided every company with the tools to store and query large amounts of data at a low cost. Since 2005, that ecosystem has expanded with more and more open source

TechLitAfrica: Computer Literacy in Africa with Tyler Cinnamon
 Podcast Wednesday, July 24 2019
In the developed world, it is easy to take for granted that we grew up with computers. Technology is so pervasive in the United States that we have debates about how early in child

Envoy Mobile with Matt Klein
 Podcast Thursday, July 25 2019
Envoy is an open source edge and service proxy that was originally developed at Lyft.  Envoy is often deployed as a sidecar application that runs alongside a service and helps that

Software IPOs with Tomasz Tunguz
 Podcast Friday, July 26 2019
Software companies such as Slack, Zoom, and Uber have recently gone public. When a company goes public, they issue a document called an S-1. Within the S-1, there is a wealth of

Data Mesh with Zhamak Deghani
 Podcast Monday, July 29 2019
Data engineering involves numerous tools–a data lake, databases, data warehouses, numerous APIs, streaming systems, and microservices. There is no shortage of ways to interact with

WebAssembly on IoT with Jonathan Beri
 Podcast Tuesday, July 30 2019
“Internet of Things” is a term used to describe the increasing connectivity and intelligence of physical objects within our lives.  IoT has manifested within enterprises under the

TechPrimers: Software Engineering YouTube with Ajay Kumar
 Podcast Wednesday, July 31 2019
Videos play a key role in the continuing education of a software engineer. Video can capture many different types of content that is useful for engineers: conference talks, tutorial

Hackathons with Jonathan Gottfried
 Podcast Thursday, August 1 2019
A hackathon is an organized event where participants work together to build a product or tool. Hackathons are about creativity, learning, and exploration. A developer that is

Career Karma: Coding Bootcamp Platform with Ruben Harris and Artur Meyster
 Podcast Friday, August 2 2019
Coding bootcamps allow anyone to become a programmer at a faster pace than the traditional computer science education system. In the last five years, coding bootcamps have grown rapidly

Golden: Intelligent Knowledge Map with Jude Gomila
 Podcast Monday, August 5 2019
A knowledge base assembles information from a wide variety of sources into a central platform. The most popular knowledge base is Wikipedia, which covers a wide variety of concepts

Jaeger: Distributed Tracing at Uber with Yuri Shkuro
 Podcast Tuesday, August 6 2019
During 2015, Uber was going through rapid scalability. The internal engineering systems were constantly tested by the growing user base. Over the next two years, the number of internal

People.ai: Machine Learning for Sales with Andrey Akselrod
 Podcast Wednesday, August 7 2019
A large sales organization has hundreds of sales people. Each of those sales people manages a set of accounts who they are trying to close sales deals on. Sales people are overseen by

Data-As-A-Service with Auren Hoffman
 Podcast Thursday, August 8 2019
Data-as-a-service businesses offer paid access to data sets. These data sets can be useful for building products or training machine learning models.  There has been steady growth in

a16z Podcasting with Sonal Chokshi
 Podcast Friday, August 9 2019
The a16z Podcast is a show that is produced by Andreessen Horowitz, an investment fund based in Silicon Valley. The a16z Podcast covers topics including software engineering, biology,

An Elegant Puzzle Virtual Book Club
 Podcast Sunday, August 11 2019
In this episode Will Larson, author of An Elegant Puzzle: Systems of Engineering Management, speaks with Uma Chingunde of Stripe and Jeff Meyerson of Software Engineering Daily about

Big Business with Tyler Cowen
 Podcast Monday, August 12 2019
Large software companies have become a target for criticism. Google, Facebook, Amazon and other prominent technology giants find themselves under a kind of scrutiny that is reminiscent

PlayStation Engineering with Tony Godar
 Podcast Tuesday, August 13 2019
The PlayStation is a line of game consoles created by Sony. PlayStation devices include the PS2, PS3, PS4, and the PSP mobile system. Tony Godar worked as an engineer in the PlayStation

Rewriting the Software Engineering Daily Android app
 Article 
by Mostafa Gazar Originally published at Medium Recently I got to work on a rewriting of the Software Engineering Daily Android app. SED is a great podcast, you should checked it out

Service Mesh Deployment with Varun Talwar
 Podcast Wednesday, August 14 2019
The service mesh abstraction allows for a consistent model for managing and monitoring the different components of a microservices architecture.  In the service mesh pattern, each

Moonlight: Software Contracting Platform with Emma Lawler and Philip Thomas
 Podcast Thursday, August 15 2019
Software engineers often work as a contractor for some duration of their career. A contractor earns a fixed hourly salary for a defined period of weeks, months, or years. Contract work

Bitcoin Ecosystem with Andreas M. Antonopoulos
 Podcast Friday, August 16 2019
Andreas M. Antonopoulos is the author of several books about cryptocurrency engineering, including Mastering Bitcoin and Mastering Ethereum. In these books, Andreas lays out the systems

Open Source Business Models with Karthik Ranganathan, Heather Meeker, and Matt Asay
 Podcast Monday, August 19 2019
Open source software has evolved into a thriving, multifaceted ecosystem. Open source encompasses operating systems and databases. Open source embodies both altruism and self-interest.

Insurance Software with Gordon Wintrob
 Podcast Tuesday, August 20 2019
Insurance is an old business. Individuals and businesses have been buying insurance policies for decades. These insurance policies can cost hundreds, thousands, or tens of thousands of

Time Series Databases with Rob Skillington
 Podcast Wednesday, August 21 2019
A time series database is optimized for the storage of high volumes of sequential data across time. Time series databases are often organized as columnar data stores that can write large

Technical Onboarding with Kristen Gallagher
 Podcast Thursday, August 22 2019
When a new employee joins a software company, it is often unclear where that employee should begin. Do they have a mentor? What are they working on? What are the expectations for how

Crypto and OSS with Haseeb Qureshi, Joseph Jacks, and Alok Vasudev
 Podcast Friday, August 23 2019
Cryptocurrencies are decentralized monetary systems built on open source software. The open source software movement has evolved from the world of Linux, MySQL, and Apache to a thriving

Facebook Scaling with Pedram Keyani
 Podcast Monday, August 26 2019
Facebook is a large multiuser application. Scaling Facebook was different than scaling a single-user application such as an ecommerce store or a search engine. A social network is faced

Facebook Release Engineering with Chuck Rossi
 Podcast Tuesday, August 27 2019
When Chuck Rossi joined Facebook in 2008, he was one of the most experienced release engineers at the company. As he began to explore the engineering practices of the organization, he

Facebook Engineering Process with Kent Beck
 Podcast Wednesday, August 28 2019
Kent Beck is a legendary figure in the world of software engineering.  Kent was an early advocate of Test-Driven Development (TDD), and popularized the idea of writing unit tests before

Facebook Parse Acquisition (Part 1) with Charity Majors
 Podcast Thursday, August 29 2019
Parse was a backend-as-a-service company that started in 2011 with the initial focus of making the cloud easier to use for mobile developers. Parse had several novel engineering

Facebook Parse Acquisition (Part 2) with Ilya Sukhar
 Podcast Friday, August 30 2019
Ilya Sukhar founded Parse in 2011 to make cloud services for mobile developers. Parse was a newer kind of cloud provider called “backend-as-a-service”, built to simplify the

DevOps at Delta Air Lines with Jasmine James
 Podcast Tuesday, September 3 2019
Airlines have always had an emphasis on new technology. Over the years, airlines have needed to develop more and more software. Digital transformation is causing every large company to

Cassandra Business with Jonathan Ellis
 Podcast Wednesday, September 4 2019
Cassandra was initially released in 2008 as a project out of Facebook. Cassandra offered an open source solution to database scalability issues that were being tackled internally by

Monday: Business Management Software with Eran Zinman
 Podcast Thursday, September 5 2019
Modern software is built with cloud services, APIs, and other high level tools. Technical software development is moving beyond the realm of writing code. Individuals who do not have a

Repl.it: Browser Coding with Amjad Masad
 Podcast Friday, September 6 2019
The browser has become the central application of the consumer operating system. Every piece of client software, from email to document management, has become usable through the browser.

JavaScript Jabber with Jeff Meyerson
 Podcast Sunday, September 8 2019
Host: Charles Max Wood of JavaScript Jabber Joined by Special Guest: Jeffrey Meyerson Jeffrey Meyerson, founder of FindCollabs and host at Software Engineering Daily joins Charles

Open Source Policy with Bruce Perens
 Podcast Monday, September 9 2019
Open source plays a key role in today’s world of technology businesses. Today, the impact of open source seems obvious. From Kubernetes to distributed databases to cloud providers, so

Google Spanner with Deepti Srivastava
 Podcast Tuesday, September 10 2019
Spanner is a globally distributed, transactionally consistent database.  Spanner initially emerged as a paper that came out of Google in 2012. Around this time, database scalability was

Finding the Benefits of Imposter Syndrome
 Article 
Originally published here by Billy Korando I am a frequent listener to the podcast Software Engineering Daily. On a recent episode Facebook Engineering Culture, Kent Beck shared his

MongoDB Data Platform with Andrew Davidson
 Podcast Wednesday, September 11 2019
A new software application has simple requirements for a database.  The database needs to be written to and read from. The database fulfills simple needs such as storing user

Talking Python with Michael Kennedy
 Podcast Thursday, September 12 2019
Python is one of the most popular programming languages in the software world. After working with Python and developing a love for the language, Michael Kennedy started to wonder why

Cloud-Native Applications with Cornelia Davis
 Podcast Friday, September 13 2019
Amazon Web Services first came out in 2006. It took several years before the software industry realized that cloud computing was a transformative piece of technology. Initially, the

Okta Engineering with Hector Aguilar
 Podcast Monday, September 16 2019
A new employee at a software company needs access to a variety of tools. In order to get started working, the employee might need Slack, email, Google Docs, and Amazon Web Services, and

Kafka Applications with Tim Berglund
 Podcast Tuesday, September 17 2019
Ever since Apache Kafka was open sourced from LinkedIn, it has been used to solve a wide variety of problems in distributed systems and data engineering. Kafka is a distributed messaging

Distributed Databases with Aly Cabral
 Podcast Wednesday, September 18 2019
Modern databases consist of multiple servers that host the data in a distributed fashion. Using multiple servers allows a database to be resilient to the failure of any one database

Open Source Ecosystem with Dirk Hohndel
 Podcast Thursday, September 19 2019
Open source software is very new. Open source has existed for less than 30-40 years, depending on who you ask. The idea of open source was popularized by Linux, and open source software

ReadMe with Greg Koberger
 Podcast Friday, September 20 2019
A software company needs to get many things right in order to be successful. Having a useful product with solid engineering is only the beginning. ReadMe was started five years ago. The

Kafka Data Pipelines with Robin Moffatt
 Podcast Monday, September 23 2019
A new software product usually starts with a single database. That database manages the tables for user accounts and basic transactions. When a product becomes popular, the database

Cloud Foundry with Abby Kearns
 Podcast Tuesday, September 24 2019
Cloud Foundry is a system for managing distributed applications. Cloud Foundry was released in 2011, and has been widely adopted by enterprises that need a platform for deploying and

WebAssembly Isolation with Tyler McMullen
 Podcast Wednesday, September 25 2019
Isolation is a fundamental concept in computer science. Software workloads are isolated from each other in order to keep resource access cleanly separated.  When programs are properly

Life Insurance Engineering with Vipul Sharma and Lingke Wang
 Podcast Thursday, September 26 2019
Ethos Life Insurance is a software company that sells life insurance products. Software is reshaping established industries such as banking, insurance, and manufacturing. In these large,

Stripe Infrastructure Management with Uma Chingunde
 Podcast Friday, September 27 2019
Software engineering is a new field. There are theories about how we should be building our systems, but these theories might change over time. The same is true for engineering

Software Moats with Astasia Myers
 Podcast Monday, September 30 2019
Investors often use the term “moat” to describe the durable competitive advantage of a company. When an investor puts money into a company, they are making that investment based on a

Cruise: Self-Driving Engineering with Mo Elshenawy
 Podcast Tuesday, October 1 2019
The development of self-driving cars is one of the biggest technological changes that is under way. Across the world, thousands of engineers are working on developing self-driving cars.

Fivetran: Data Connectors with George Fraser
 Podcast Wednesday, October 2 2019
Large companies have multiple databases, multiple data formats, and multiple applications that need to use the data. Every data engineer needs to move data between these different

The Messy Middle with Scott Belsky
 Podcast Thursday, October 3 2019
Scott Belsky founded Behance in 2006. Behance is a social platform where designers and creators share their work. Scott was motivated to start Behance due to his desire to combine his

Indie Hackers (3 Years Later) with Courtland Allen
 Podcast Friday, October 4 2019
Indie Hackers is a platform for independent software businesses to discuss strategy and find inspiration. Courtland Allen founded Indie Hackers with the goal of sharing the stories of

GDPR in Practice with Joshua Prismon
 Podcast Monday, October 7 2019
Data privacy policies have changed how software organizations need to operate. As consumer preferences have shifted in favor of strong privacy, software companies are having to examine

Traces: Video Recognition with Veronica Yurchuk and Kostyantyn Shysh
 Podcast Tuesday, October 8 2019
Video surveillance impacts human lives every day.  On most days, we do not feel the impact of video surveillance. But the effects of video surveillance have tremendous potential. It can

Treehouse: Business and Education with Ryan Carson
 Podcast Wednesday, October 9 2019
The ability to create software is a superpower. But software education is not evenly distributed. Ryan Carson started Treehouse to provide a high quality education system for anyone to

Data Visualization with Sherman Wood and Chad Lumley
 Podcast Thursday, October 10 2019
Data visualization is the presentation of data in a way that emphasizes certain qualities about that data. Data visualization can be used to prove a specific point, or it can be used as

Webflow: No-Code with Vlad Magdalin
 Podcast Friday, October 11 2019
Webflow is a platform for building applications without programming. Software engineering has barely been around for 30 years. Over that period of time, there have been many attempts to

freeCodeCamp’s Quincy Larson interviews Jeff Meyerson
 Podcast Saturday, October 12 2019
We are republishing a podcast from the freeCodeCamp Podcast as a weekend episode. Jeff Meyerson is the creator and host of the Software Engineering Daily podcast. Jeff grew up in Texas.

How To Build A Cloud Provider with Anurag Goel
 Podcast Monday, October 14 2019
Render is a cloud provider built on top of Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud. Render uses the compute abstractions provided by the major cloud providers to build a second layer cloud

Diffbot Infrastructure with Mike Tung
 Podcast Tuesday, October 15 2019
Diffbot is a knowledge graph that allows developers to interface with the unstructured web as if it was a structured database. In today’s show, Diffbot CEO Mike Tung returns for a

Incident Reproduction with Tammy Butow
 Podcast Wednesday, October 16 2019
Databases go offline. Services fail to scale up. Deployment errors can cause an application backend to get DDoS’d. When an event happens that prevents your company from operating as

Gravity: Distributed Application Delivery with Ev Kontsevoy
 Podcast Thursday, October 17 2019
Modern applications are distributed systems. These applications require an installation mechanism that can run and update the software across multiple nodes.  When a SaaS company starts

YugaByte Open Source Business Model
 Article 
Open source software has been climbing the ladder to prominence in the software world for the past couple of decades.  Products like Linux, MySQL, and PostgreSQL have become the

LinkedIn Kafka with Nacho Solis
 Podcast Friday, October 18 2019
Apache Kafka was created at LinkedIn. Kafka was open sourced in 2011, when the company was eight years old. By that time, LinkedIn had developed a social network with millions of users.

Dark Lang with Ellen Chisa and Paul Biggar
 Podcast Monday, October 21 2019
Dark Lang is a programming language that is tightly integrated with the cloud.  Dark takes an opinionated approach that most developers are going to want to run their applications in

Crypto Businesses with Haseeb Qureshi
 Podcast Tuesday, October 22 2019
Cryptocurrencies are a fundamental computer science invention.  Cryptocurrencies crashed in 2018 but the technology remains as promising as ever. Bitcoin is a decentralized currency,

LinkedIn Data Platform with Carl Steinbach
 Podcast Wednesday, October 23 2019
LinkedIn is a social network with petabytes of data.  In order to store that data, LinkedIn distributes and replicates that data across a large cluster of machines running the Hadoop

Redis with Alvin Richards
 Podcast Thursday, October 24 2019
Redis is an in-memory database that persists to disk. Redis is commonly used as an object cache for web applications. Applications are composed of caches and databases. A cache typically

Alluxio: Data Orchestration with Haoyuan Li
 Podcast Friday, October 25 2019
In 2013, the Berkeley AMPLab was a center of innovation.  Three projects from AMPLab have turned into successful open source projects and companies: Spark, Mesos, and Alluxio. Haoyuan

Facebook Entrepreneurship with Jeff Rothschild
 Podcast Monday, October 28 2019
Jeff Rothschild was one of the earliest engineers to join Facebook. In the 1990s, Jeff had co-founded Veritas Software and helped it to its IPO in 2004. After Veritas, Jeff worked on

Facebook Products with Peter Deng
 Podcast Tuesday, October 29 2019
Peter Deng has worked on most of Facebook’s major products: Newsfeed, Instagram, Oculus, and Messenger. These different products have different requirements, but are all part of the

Facebook Reflections with Pete Hunt and Nick Schrock
 Podcast Wednesday, October 30 2019
Facebook engineering is unique. Software is built at Facebook in a way that is distinctly different than any other company. In our series of shows about Facebook engineering, we have

Facebook Fallout with Antonio Garcia Martinez
 Podcast Thursday, October 31 2019
Chaos Monkeys is a book about Silicon Valley startups and Facebook. It is one of the most accurate books written about the modern technology industry, and captures both the negatives and

Facebook Leadership with Arturo Bejar
 Podcast Friday, November 1 2019
Facebook leadership has a significant amount of engineers in its ranks, and engineers understand how to create an environment that appeals to other engineers.  Engineers do not like

Leadership with Ben Horowitz
 Podcast Monday, November 4 2019
Photo credit: Elisabeth Fall Ben Horowitz started Loudcloud with Marc Andreessen in 1999. He ran the company for eight years and chronicled his experience in his first book The Hard

Scale with Alexandr Wang
 Podcast Tuesday, November 5 2019
Machine learning is widely understood by the software community. But it is still hard to build a company around machine learning, because there is not easy access to large, unique data

FOSSA: Open Source Management with Kevin Wang
 Podcast Wednesday, November 6 2019
Every company has a software supply chain. A company builds its products from custom code, paid APIs, paid proprietary binaries, and open source software libraries. As the types of

LinkedIn Data Engineering with Kapil Surlaker
 Podcast Thursday, November 7 2019
A large social network needs to develop systems for ingesting, storing, and processing large volumes of data. Data engineering at scale requires multiple engineering teams that are

Drones with Chris Anderson
 Podcast Friday, November 8 2019
Drones will deliver food to us. Drones will be able to extinguish fires. Drones will be used to relay Internet signals and make the world more connected.  These all sound like great

Gatsby with Kyle Mathews and Sam Bhagwat
 Podcast Monday, November 11 2019
Frontend software development has become as complex as backend development. There was a time when frontend web development was simple. There was a small number of JavaScript frameworks

Incident Response Machine Learning with Chris Riley
 Article Tuesday, November 12 2019
Software bugs cause unexpected problems at every company.  Some problems are small. A website goes down in the middle of the night, and the outage triggers a phone call to an engineer

Bugsnag Business with James Smith
 Podcast Wednesday, November 13 2019
Crash monitoring emerged as a software category over the last decade. Crash monitoring software allows developers to understand when their applications are crashing on client devices.

GraalVM Quarkus: Java Acceleration with Guillaume Smet and Emmanuel Bernard
 Podcast Thursday, November 14 2019
Java programs run in a different environment than they did ten years ago. Modern infrastructure runs on containers sitting in a Kubernetes cluster. The optimal configuration for a Java

Dagster with Nick Schrock
 Podcast Friday, November 15 2019
Data engineering is difficult.  Companies want to be able to maximize the value they get from their large data sets, but there are so many steps required for deriving that value that

Cloudflare Serverless with Zack Bloom
 Podcast Monday, November 18 2019
“Serverless” is an execution model where applications are scheduled and deployed to servers that are not directly managed by the application developer.  In serverless execution, an

Bubble: Code-Free Programming with Emmanuel Straschnov and Joshua Haas
 Podcast Tuesday, November 19 2019
The vision of code-free programming has existed for decades. Software engineers have always dreamed of empowering non-technical users with the same creative tools that programmers have

Indie Hack or Venture Back with Lynne Tye
 Podcast Wednesday, November 20 2019
Key Values is a platform where companies are profiled with descriptions of their company values. These profiles describe features such as work-life balance, company culture, daily

HTTP with Julia Evans
 Podcast Thursday, November 21 2019
HTTP is a protocol that allows browsers and web applications to communicate across the Internet. Everyone knows that HTTP is doing some important work, because “HTTP” is at the

Web Application Testing with Gabriel-James Safar
 Podcast Friday, November 22 2019
Web applications are used on a wide variety of platforms.  On each of these platforms the web app needs to load properly and allow the user to navigate the website and interact with all

Cloud Dependencies with Mya Pitzeruse
 Podcast Saturday, November 23 2019
New software abstractions always take advantage of the abstractions that have been built before. Software libraries allow us to import code that sits on the same host as a new program.

Indie Hackers with Courtland Allen Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Monday, November 25 2019
Originally published November 4, 2016 Indie Hackers is a website that profiles independent developers who have made profitable software projects, usually without raising any money. These

Future of Computing with John Hennessy Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Tuesday, November 26 2019
Originally published June 7, 2018 Moore’s Law states that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles about every two years. Moore’s Law is less like a “law”

Kong API Platform with Marco Palladino Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Wednesday, November 27 2019
Originally published January 4, 2019 When a user makes a request to product like The New York Times, that request hits an API gateway. An API gateway is the entry point for an external

Uber’s Data Platform with Zhenxiao Luo Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Thursday, November 28 2019
Originally published May 24, 2018 When a user takes a ride on Uber, the app on the user’s phone is communicating with Uber’s backend infrastructure, which is writing to a database

Economics of Software with Russ Roberts Holiday Repeat
 Podcast Friday, November 29 2019
Originally published July 14, 2016 EconTalk is a weekly economics podcast that has been going for a decade. On EconTalk, Russ Roberts brings on writers, intellectuals, and entrepreneurs

Distributed SQL with Karthik Ranganathan and Sid Choudhury
 Podcast Monday, December 2 2019
Relational databases provide durable transactional systems for storing data. The relational model has existed for decades, but the requirements for a relational database have changed.

Java 13 with Georges Saab
 Podcast Tuesday, December 3 2019
Java has been popular since the 90s, when it started to be used as a programming language for enterprises.  Today, Java is still widely deployed, but the infrastructure environment is

Heroku Infrastructure with Mark Turner
 Podcast Wednesday, December 4 2019
A cloud provider gives a developer low-cost compute infrastructure on-demand.  Cloud providers can be divided up into two categories: Layer 1 cloud providers and Layer 2 cloud

Istio Market Strategy with Zack Butcher
 Podcast Thursday, December 5 2019
Kubernetes has created a widespread system for deploying and managing infrastructure. As Kubernetes has been increasingly adopted, companies are thinking about how to leverage that

Linkerd Market Strategy with William Morgan
 Podcast Friday, December 6 2019
The container orchestration wars ended in 2016 with Kubernetes being the most popular open source tool for deploying and managing infrastructure. Since that time, most large enterprises

Practical AI with Chris Benson
 Podcast Monday, December 9 2019
Machine learning algorithms have existed for decades. But in the last ten years, several advancements in software and hardware have caused dramatic growth in the viability of

Remote Work with Philip Thomas
 Podcast Tuesday, December 10 2019
Offices have historically been the place where most knowledge work takes place. An office is a central meeting point for everyone in an organization. Offices allow for high bandwidth,

Continuous Intelligence with Kalyan Ramanathan
 Podcast Wednesday, December 11 2019
Logging provides raw data that can be abstracted into higher level information. Logs are generated at every layer of infrastructure: physical host, virtual machine, container, pod, and

Basic Income with Floyd Marinescu
 Podcast Thursday, December 12 2019
Automation has the potential to eliminate rote jobs such as call center workers and truck drivers. The downstream effects of automation also leads to new jobs, such as data labeling and

GitLab Engineering with Marin Jankovski
 Podcast Friday, December 13 2019
GitLab is a company that builds an open source platform for managing git repositories. GitLab was started in 2012, and has grown to have a large enterprise business with additional

Snyk: Open Source Security with Guy Podjarny
 Podcast Monday, December 16 2019
The software supply chain includes cloud infrastructure, on-prem proprietary solutions, APIs, programming languages, networking products, and open source software.  Each of these

Kubernetes at Cruise with Karl Isenberg
 Podcast Tuesday, December 17 2019
Cruise is a company that is building a fully automated self-driving car service. The infrastructure of a self-driving car platform presents a large number of new engineering problems.

Roblox Engineering with Claus Moberg
 Podcast Wednesday, December 18 2019
Roblox is a gaming platform with a large ecosystem of players, creators, game designers, and entrepreneurs. The world of Roblox is a three-dimensional environment where characters and

No Code with Shawn Wang
 Podcast Thursday, December 19 2019
The software category known as “no-code” describes a set of tools that can be used to build software without writing large amounts of code in a programming language. No-code tools

freeCodeCamp with Quincy Larson
 Podcast Friday, December 20 2019
freeCodeCamp was started five years ago with the goal of providing free coding education to anyone on the Internet. freeCodeCamp has become the best place to begin learning how to write

Kubernetes Progress with Kelsey Hightower
 Podcast Monday, January 6 2020
When the Kubernetes project was started, Amazon Web Services was the dominant cloud provider. Most of the code that runs AWS is closed source, which prevents an open ecosystem from

Amazon Kubernetes with Abby Fuller
 Podcast Tuesday, January 7 2020
Amazon’s container offerings include ECS (Elastic Container Service), EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service), and Fargate. Through these different offerings, Amazon provides a variety of

Service Meshes
 Article 
What’s a service mesh and why should I care? In one sentence, a service mesh is a pattern in which all of a system’s services are accompanied by proxies and accompanying logic

Amazon EC2 with Dave Brown
 Podcast Wednesday, January 8 2020
Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a virtualized server product that provides the user with scalable compute infrastructure. EC2 was created in 2006 as one of the first three AWS

NoSQL Optimization with Rick Houlihan
 Podcast Thursday, January 9 2020
NoSQL databases provide an interface for storing and accessing data that allows the user to work with data in an “unstructured” fashion. SQL databases require the data in the

Slack Data Platform with Josh Wills
 Podcast Friday, January 10 2020
Slack is a messaging platform for organizations. Since its creation in 2013, Slack has quickly become a core piece of technology used by a wide variety of technology companies, groups,

Data Infrastructure Go-To-Market with Sean Knapp
 Podcast Monday, January 13 2020
Every large company generates large amounts of data. Data engineering is the process of storing, transforming, and leveraging that data. Data infrastructure companies provide tools and

Edge Computing Platform with Jaromir Coufal
 Podcast Tuesday, January 14 2020
Edge computing is the usage of servers that are geographically close to the client device. The first common use case for edge computing was CDNs: content-delivery networks. A content

Packet: Baremetal Infrastructure with Zachary Smith and Nathan Goulding
 Podcast Wednesday, January 15 2020
Cloud infrastructure is usually consumed in the form of virtual machines or containers. These VMs or containers are running on a physical host machine that is also running other VMs and

JS Party with Kevin Ball
 Podcast Thursday, January 16 2020
The JavaScript ecosystem stretches across frontend, backend, and middleware. There are newer tools such as GraphQL, Gatsby, and WebAssembly. There are frameworks like React, Vue, and

Apollo GraphQL with Geoff Schmidt
 Podcast Friday, January 17 2020
GraphQL has become a core piece of infrastructure for many software applications. GraphQL is used to make requests that are structured as GraphQL queries and responded to through a

Software Media with Tim O’Reilly
 Podcast Monday, January 20 2020
Software has changed the way the world functions. The rapid pace of change has made it difficult to know how to navigate the new world. Knowledge workers who want to keep advancing in

Webflow Engineering with Bryant Chou
 Podcast Tuesday, January 21 2020
Webflow is a visual programming tool used by designers, developers, and other technical users. Webflow is a leader in the “low code” or “no code” category of software tools that

DFINITY: The Internet Computer with Dominic Williams
 Podcast Wednesday, January 22 2020
If the Internet was reimagined with the software and hardware infrastructure we have today, what would it look like? That is the question that DFINITY is working on answering.

Lyft Kubernetes with Vicki Cheung
 Podcast Thursday, January 23 2020
The ridesharing infrastructure of Lyft has a high volume of traffic that is mostly handled by servers on AWS. When Vicki Cheung joined Lyft in 2018, the company was managing containers

GitLab Strategy with Sid Sibrandij
 Podcast Friday, January 24 2020
The word “DevOps” has a different definition depending on who you ask.  For some people, it is about the process of managing and releasing code. It can involve container management

Mattermost with Ian Tien
 Podcast Monday, January 27 2020
Chat systems have been a part of software development for decades. Older systems like Pidgin and Yammer were surpassed by newer systems like HipChat. And when Slack was created, it

Replicated Software Delivery with Grant Miller and Marc Campbell
 Podcast Tuesday, January 28 2020
Distributed systems are required to run most modern enterprise software. Application services need multiple instances for scalability and failover. Large databases are sharded onto

What Does Java Do Best?
 Article 
The first public implementation of Java was released in 1996, when the Nintendo 64 was at the cutting edge of game console technology and 41% of web users regularly accessed AOL.com. The

Cloud Log Analysis with Jack Naglieri
 Podcast Wednesday, January 29 2020
Large software companies have lots of users, and the activity from those users results in high volumes of traffic. These companies also have a large surface area across the enterprise. 

Alpaca: Stock Trading API with Yoshi Yokokawa
 Podcast Thursday, January 30 2020
Stock trading takes place across a variety of software platforms. Etrade and Schwab have allowed individual traders to buy securities for decades. Robinhood built a business around a

What’s Behind the Rise of “Challenger Banks”?
 Article 
Introduction This Monday, Visa announced a plan to buy fintech startup Plaid at a valuation of $5.3 billion. For a company that, in essence, builds intermediary APIs as a platform for

Venture Stories with Erik Torenberg
 Podcast Friday, January 31 2020
Venture capital investing requires an understanding of market dynamics, technology, and finance.  There is also an element of human nature. Consumer trends can make or break the

John Deere: Farm Software with Ryan Bergman
 Podcast Monday, February 3 2020
Robotics has changed modern agriculture. Autonomous systems are powering the tractors, cotton pickers, and corn cutters that yield plants at industrial scale. John Deere is a company

Rive: Animation Tooling with Guido and Luigi Rosso
 Podcast Tuesday, February 4 2020
Animations can be used to create games, app tutorials, and user interface components. Animations can be seen in messaging apps, where animated reactions can convey rich feelings over a

Changelog Podcasting with Adam Stacoviak and Jerod Santo
 Podcast Wednesday, February 5 2020
The Changelog is a podcast about the world of open source. As open source has become closely tied with the entire software development lifecycle, The Changelog has expanded its coverage

Nubank Data Engineering with Sujith Nair
 Podcast Thursday, February 6 2020
Nubank is a popular bank that is based in Brazil. Nubank has more than 20 million customers, and has accumulated a high volume of data over the six years since it was started. Mobile

Presto with Justin Borgman
 Podcast Friday, February 7 2020
A data platform contains all of the data that a company has accumulated over the years. Across a data platform, there is a multitude of data sources: databases, a data lake, data

The Data Exchange with Ben Lorica
 Podcast Monday, February 10 2020
Data infrastructure has been transformed over the last fifteen years.  The open source Hadoop project led to the creation of multiple companies based around commercializing the

Druid Analytics with Jad Naous
 Podcast Tuesday, February 11 2020
Large companies generate large volumes of data. This data gets dumped into a data lake for long-term storage, then pulled into memory for processing and analysis. Once it is in memory,

Flink and BEAM Stream Processing with Maximilian Michels
 Podcast Wednesday, February 12 2020
Distributed stream processing systems are used to read large volumes of data and perform operations across those data streams.  These stream processing systems often build off of the

Anyscale with Ion Stoica
 Podcast Thursday, February 13 2020
Machine learning applications are widely deployed across the software industry.  Most of these applications used supervised learning, a process in which labeled data sets are used to

What is a Layer 2 Cloud Provider?
 Article 
The rise of “cloud infrastructure” has presented a dilemma for developers: what is the appropriate level of complexity for a cloud provider to handle? In the last decade, the options

The Rise of Platform Engineering
 Article 
The rise of microservices, container orchestration, and the like have introduced novel engineering challenges. Platform engineering teams have formed at a number of organizations to

Data Warehouse ETL with Matthew Scullion
 Podcast Friday, February 14 2020
A data warehouse provides low latency access to large volumes of data.  A data warehouse is a crucial piece of infrastructure for a large company, because it can be used to answer

Great Expectations: Data Pipeline Testing with Abe Gong
 Podcast Monday, February 17 2020
A data pipeline is a series of steps that takes large data sets and creates usable results from them. At the beginning of a data pipeline, a data set might be pulled from a database, a

Go Networking with Sneha Inguva
 Podcast Tuesday, February 18 2020
A cloud provider gives developers access to virtualized server infrastructure. When a developer rents this infrastructure via an API call, a virtual server is instantiated on physical

LinkedIn Data Infrastructure
 Article 
LinkedIn has become a staple for the modern professional, whether it’s used for searching for a new job, reading industry news, or keeping up with professional connections.  As a

Materialize: Streaming SQL on Timely Data with Arjun Narayan and Frank McSherry
 Podcast Wednesday, February 19 2020
Distributed stream processing frameworks are used to rapidly ingest and aggregate large volumes of incoming data. These frameworks often require the application developer to write

Data Infrastructure Investing with Eric Anderson
 Podcast Thursday, February 20 2020
In a modern data platform, distributed streaming systems are used to read data coming off of an application in real-time. There are a wide variety of streaming systems, including Kafka

LinkedIn Kafka
 Article 
This article is part 2 in a series about LinkedIn’s data journey. You can read the first part of LinkedIn’s data infrastructure here.  It requires repeating that LinkedIn is a

Courier with Troy Goode
 Podcast Friday, February 21 2020
A gig economy application generates lots of notifications.  There is SMS, mobile phone updates, emails, and native application updates. If you order a ride from Uber, you might receive

Infrastructure Management with Joey Parsons
 Podcast Monday, February 24 2020
At Airbnb, infrastructure management is standardized across the organization. Platform engineering teams build tools that allow the other teams throughout the organization to work more

Decentralized Finance with Tom Schmidt
 Podcast Tuesday, February 25 2020
Cryptocurrencies today serve two purposes: store of value and speculation.  The application infrastructure that has been built around cryptocurrency is mostly to support these use

Parabola: No-Code Data Workflows with Alex Yaseen
 Podcast Wednesday, February 26 2020
Every company has a large number of routine data workflows. These data workflows involve spreadsheets, CSV files, and tedious manual work to be done by a knowledge worker.  For example,

Slack Frontend Architecture with Anuj Nair
 Podcast Thursday, February 27 2020
Slack is a messaging application with millions of users. The desktop application is an Electron app, which is effectively a web browser dedicated to running Slack. This frontend is built

Makerpad: Low Code Tools with Ben Tossell
 Podcast 
Low code tools can be used to build an increasing number of applications. Knowledge workers within a large corporation can use low code tools to augment their usage of spreadsheets.

NextJS with Guillermo Rauch
 Podcast Monday, March 2 2020
When ReactJS became popular, frontend web development became easier. But React is just a view layer. Developers who came to React expecting a full web development framework like Ruby on

React Fundamentals with Ryan Florence
 Podcast Tuesday, March 3 2020
ReactJS began to standardize frontend web development around 2015. The core ideas around one-way data binding, JSX, and components caused many developers to embrace React with open arms.

JavaScript Deployments with Brian LeRoux
 Podcast Wednesday, March 4 2020
Full-stack JavaScript applications have been possible since the creation of NodeJS in 2009. Since then, the best practices for building and deploying these applications have steadily

React Stack with Tejas Kumar
 Podcast Thursday, March 5 2020
JavaScript fatigue. This phrase has been used to describe the confusion and exhaustion around the volume of different tools required to be productive as a JavaScript developer.

React Best Practices with Kent Dodds
 Podcast Friday, March 6 2020
ReactJS developers have lots of options for building their applications, and those options are not easy to work through. State management, concurrency, networking, and testing all have

DBT: Data Build Tool with Tristan Handy
 Podcast Monday, March 9 2020
A data warehouse serves the purpose of providing low latency queries for high volumes of data. A data warehouse is often part of a data pipeline, which moves data through different areas

OneGraph: GraphQL Tooling with Sean Grove
 Podcast Tuesday, March 10 2020
GraphQL is a system that allows frontend engineers to make requests across multiple data sources using a simple query format. In GraphQL, a frontend developer does not have to worry

Cloud Investing with Danel Dayan
 Podcast Wednesday, March 11 2020
Cloud computing caused a fundamental economic shift in how software is built. Before the cloud, businesses needed to buy physical servers in order to operate. There was an up-front cost

Flyte: Lyft Data Processing Platform with Allyson Gale and Ketan Umare
 Podcast Thursday, March 12 2020
Lyft is a ridesharing company that generates a high volume of data every day.  This data includes ride history, pricing information, mapping, routing, and financial transactions. The

Descript with Andrew Mason
 Podcast Friday, March 13 2020
Descript is a software product for editing podcasts and video. Descript is a deceptively powerful tool, and its software architecture includes novel usage of transcription APIs,

Location Data with Ryan Fox Squire
 Podcast Monday, March 16 2020
Physical places have a large amount of latent data. Pick any location on a map, and think about all of the questions you could ask about that location. What businesses are at that

Sisu Data with Peter Bailis
 Podcast Tuesday, March 17 2020
A high volume of data can contain a high volume of useful information. That fact is well understood by the software world. Unfortunately, it is not a simple process to surface useful

Infrastructure Investing with Vivek Saraswat
 Podcast Wednesday, March 18 2020
Software investing requires a deep understanding of the market, and an ability to predict what changes might occur in the near future. At the level of core infrastructure, software

Pulumi: Infrastructure as Code with Joe Duffy
 Podcast Thursday, March 19 2020
Infrastructure-as-code allows developers to use programming languages to define the architecture of their software deployments, including servers, load balancers, and databases.  There

ClickUp Engineering with Zeb Evans and Alex Yurkowski
 Podcast Friday, March 20 2020
Over the last fifteen years, there has been a massive increase in the number of new software tools. This is true at the infrastructure layer: there are more databases, more cloud

Google Cloud Networking with Lakshmi Sharma
 Podcast Monday, March 23 2020
A large cloud provider has high volumes of network traffic moving through data centers throughout the world. These providers manage the infrastructure for thousands of companies, across

Datomic Architecture with Marshall Thompson
 Podcast Tuesday, March 24 2020
Datomic is a database system based on an append-only record keeping system. Datomic users can query the complete history of the database, and Datomic has ACID transactional support. The

Sorbet: Typed Ruby with Dmitry Petrashko
 Podcast Wednesday, March 25 2020
Programming languages are dynamically typed or statically typed. In a dynamically typed language, the programmer does not need to declare if a variable is an integer, string, or other

Remote Team Management with Ryan Chartrand
 Podcast Thursday, March 26 2020
Remote engineering work makes some elements of software development harder, and some elements easier. With Slack and email, communication becomes more clear cut. Project management tools

Cloud Kitchen Platform with Ashley Colpaart
 Podcast Friday, March 27 2020
Food delivery apps have changed how the restaurant world operates. After seven years of mobile food delivery, the volume of food ordered through these apps has become so large that

Pika Dependency Management with Fred Schott
 Podcast Monday, March 30 2020
Modern web development involves a complicated toolchain for managing dependencies. One part of this toolchain is the bundler, a tool that puts all your code and dependencies together

Facebook Messenger Engineering with Mohsen Agsen
 Podcast Tuesday, March 31 2020
Facebook Messenger is a chat application that millions of people use every day to talk to each other. Over time, Messenger has grown to include group chats, video chats, animations,

Managing Cloud Data Services with Heroku
 Article Tuesday, March 31 2020
Nearly all modern web applications depend on persisted data in order to function. Since the introduction of frameworks such as JavaScript in the late 1990s, developers have demanded more

Audio Data Engineering with Allison King
 Podcast Wednesday, April 1 2020
Cortico is a non-profit that builds audio tools to improve public dialogue. Allison King is an engineer at Cortico, and she joins the show to talk about the process of building audio

Serverless Development with Jeremy Daly
 Podcast Thursday, April 2 2020
Serverless tools have come a long way since the release of AWS Lambda in 2014. Serverless apps were originally architected around Lambda, with the functions-as-a-service being used to

V8 Lite with Ross McIlroy
 Podcast Friday, April 3 2020
V8 is the JavaScript engine that runs Chrome. Every popular website makes heavy use of JavaScript, and V8 manages the execution environment of that code. The code that processes in your

Godot Game Engine with Juan Linietsky
 Podcast Monday, April 6 2020
Building a game is not easy. The development team needs to figure out a unique design and gameplay mechanics that will attract players. There is a great deal of creative work that goes

kSQLDB: Kafka Streaming Interface with Michael Drogalis
 Podcast Tuesday, April 7 2020
Kafka is a distributed stream processing system that is commonly used for storing large volumes of append-only event data. Kafka has been open source for almost a decade, and as the

Debugging in a Remote World
 Article 
To learn more about Rookout go to softwareengineeringdaily.com/rookout. As long as there has been software, there has been a need to maintain and debug it; and as the world we live in is

Cadence: Uber’s Workflow Engine with Maxim Fateev
 Podcast Wednesday, April 8 2020
A workflow is an application that involves more than just a simple request/response communication. For example, consider a session of a user taking a ride in an Uber. The user initiates

Snorkel: Training Dataset Management with Braden Hancock
 Podcast Thursday, April 9 2020
Machine learning models require the use of training data, and that data needs to be labeled. Today, we have high quality data infrastructure tools such as TensorFlow, but we don’t have

Reserved Instances with Aran Khanna
 Podcast Friday, April 10 2020
When a developer spins up a virtual machine on AWS, that virtual machine could be purchased using one of several types of cost structures. These cost structures include on-demand

Collaborative SQL with Rahil Sondhi
 Podcast Monday, April 13 2020
Data analysts need to collaborate with each other in the same way that software engineers do. They also need a high quality development environment.  These data analysts are not working

Ceph Storage System with Sage Weil
 Podcast Tuesday, April 14 2020
Ceph is a storage system that can be used for provisioning object storage, block storage, and file storage. These storage primitives can be used as the underlying medium for databases,

Shopify React Native with Farhan Thawar
 Podcast Wednesday, April 15 2020
Shopify is a platform for selling products and building a business. It is a large e-commerce company with hundreds of engineers and several different mobile apps. Shopify’s engineering

NGINX Service Mesh with Alan Murphy
 Podcast Thursday, April 16 2020
NGINX is a web server that is used as a load balancer, an API gateway, a reverse proxy, and other purposes. Core application servers such as Ruby on Rails are often supported by NGINX,

Facebook OpenStreetMap Engineering with Saurav Mohapatra and Jacob Wasserman
 Podcast Friday, April 17 2020
Facebook applications use maps for showing users where to go. These maps can display businesses, roads, and event locations. Understanding the geographical world is also important for

Zoom Vulnerabilities with Patrick Wardle
 Podcast Monday, April 20 2020
Zoom video chat has become an indispensable part of our lives. In a crowded market of video conferencing apps, Zoom managed to build a product that performs better than the competition,

Frontend Monitoring with Matt Arbesfeld
 Podcast Tuesday, April 21 2020
Web development has historically had more work being done on the server than on the client. The observability tooling has reflected this emphasis on the backend. Monitoring tools for log

NGINX API Management with Kevin Jones
 Podcast Wednesday, April 22 2020
 Cloudburst: Stateful Functions-as-a-Service with Vikram Sreekanti
 Podcast Thursday, April 23 2020
 Rasa: Conversational AI with Tom Bocklisch
 Podcast Friday, April 24 2020
 Dask: Scalable Python with Matthew Rocklin
 Podcast Monday, April 27 2020
 CockroachDB with Peter Mattis
 Podcast Tuesday, April 28 2020
 Prefect Dataflow Scheduler with Jeremiah Lowin
 Podcast Wednesday, April 29 2020
 JAMStack Content Management with Scott Gallant, Jordan Patterson, and Nolan Phillips
 Podcast Thursday, April 30 2020
 Data Lakehouse with Michael Armbrust
 Podcast Friday, May 1 2020
 Isolation with Courtland Allen and Anurag Goel
 Podcast Monday, May 4 2020
 Multicloud MySQL with Jiten Vaidya and Anthony Yeh
 Podcast Tuesday, May 5 2020
 Advanced Redis with Alvin Richards
 Podcast Wednesday, May 6 2020
 Pravega: Storage for Streams with Flavio Junquiera
 Podcast Thursday, May 7 2020
 Dropbox Engineering with Andrew Fong
 Podcast Friday, May 8 2020
 Social Distancing Data with Ryan Fox Squire
 Podcast Monday, May 11 2020
 Static Analysis for Infrastructure with Guy Eisenkot
 Podcast Tuesday, May 12 2020
 Grapl: Graph-Based Detection and Response with Colin O’Brien
 Podcast Wednesday, May 13 2020
 International Consumer Credit Infrastructure with Brian Regan and Misha Esipov
 Podcast Thursday, May 14 2020
 
AWS Virtualization with Anthony Liguori
 Podcast Friday, May 15 2020
 Frontend Performance with Anycart’s Rafael Sanches
 Podcast Monday, May 18 2020
 Matterport 3-D Imaging with Japjit Tulsi
 Podcast Tuesday, May 19 2020
 RudderStack: Open Source Customer Data Infrastructure with Soumyadeb Mitra
 Podcast Wednesday, May 20 2020
ArcGIS: Geographic Information Software with Max Payson
 Podcast Thursday, May 21 2020
RedwoodJS with Tom Preston-Werner
 Podcast Friday, May 22 2020